Domain Adaptation Method and Modality Gap Impact in Audio-Text Models
for Prototypical Sound Classification
Emiliano Acevedo1, Mart´ın Rocamora1,2, Magdalena Fuentes3
1Facultad de Ingenier´ıa, Universidad de la Rep´ublica, Uruguay
2Music Technology Group, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Spain
3MARL-IDM, New York University, USA
eacevedo@fing.edu.uy, martin.rocamora@upf.edu, mfuentes@nyu.edu
Abstract
Audio-text models are widely used in zero-shot environ-
mental sound classification as they alleviate the need for anno-
tated data. However, we show that their performance severely
drops in the presence of background sound sources. Our anal-
ysis reveals that this degradation is primarily driven by SNR
levels of background soundscapes, and independent of back-
ground type. To address this, we propose a novel method that
quantifies and integrates the contribution of background sources
into the classification process, improving performance without
requiring model retraining. Our domain adaptation technique
enhances accuracy across various backgrounds and SNR con-
ditions. Moreover, we analyze the modality gap between audio
and text embeddings, showing that narrowing this gap improves
classification performance. The method generalizes effectively
across state-of-the-art prototypical approaches, showcasing its
scalability and robustness for diverse environments.
Index Terms: audio-text models, modality gap, domain adap-
tation, zero-shot sound classification
1. Introduction
Audio-text models (ATMs), i.e. embedding models with seman-
tic knowledge of language and sound, have become popular in
zero-shot (ZS) sound classification as they relieve the need for
collecting and annotating audio recordings [1, 2]. Aligning au-
dio and text modalities facilitates prototype approaches, where
anchors, specific embedding points of one modality, act as class
prototypes for the other within a shared latent space. A common
method uses text anchors to define audio class prototypes and
then classify unlabeled audio based on its proximity to the near-
est prototype. Such models have potential in applications such
as noise pollution analysis [3], surveillance systems [4], hearing
aid technology [5], and smart city initiatives [6]. Among audio-
text models, LION-CLAP [7] stands out in multiple tasks [8] as
one of the best-performing due to training on one of the largest
available audio-text datasets, and careful selection of hyperpa-
rameters for both audio and text encoders.
Despite the real-world nature of sound classification (i.e.
sounds are rarely encountered in isolation but within a back-
ground soundscape), most ATMs have been used for ZS clas-
sification with isolated sound sources. In this work, we show
that the presence of background sound sources significantly de-
grades ATMs performance. Recently, domain adaptation (DA)
techniques for ATMs have been proposed [9,10], focusing only
on optimizing the text encoder’s input or feature space by learn-
ing domain-specific tokens. Furthermore, as noted in [11],
ATMs struggle to fully understand natural language, particu-
larly contextual concepts such as sequential or concurrent sound
events. Our analysis further reveals that treating the background
as a high-level text concept (e.g., “the sound of a park”) is mis-
leading and often results in misclassifications driven by back-
ground sound sources. These findings underscore the need for
more precise characterizations of background soundscapes to
achieve effective DA in these scenarios. Motivated by these lim-
itations, we propose a method that quantifies the contribution
of background sound sources in an audio recording to improve
ZS classification. By treating the background as a combination
of individual sounds, our method consistently improves perfor-
mance across various types and amplitude levels of background
soundscapes without requiring model retraining.
Besides the challenges of real-world sound classification,
audio-text models suffer from a common issue of multimodal
models, the modality gap (i.e. a semantic misalignment of
modalities in the embedding space). This is a known conse-
quence of models trained with contrastive loss [12, 13]. Pre-
vious solutions, such as projection-based and nearest-neighbor
decoding [14], have addressed this issue. Building on these, we
show that the recent method proposed by [15], which leverages
unlabeled audio, is similarly effective for narrowing the gap,
resulting in improved performance.
This work makes three key contributions: (i) a quantifica-
tion of background sound sources’ influence in zero-shot classi-
fication, (ii) a novel method that incorporates background pro-
files to improve performance in domain shifts, and (iii) an anal-
ysis of the modality gap’s impact on sound classification. Our
code is made available as open source for further research. 1
2. Impact of Background Sounds
To assess the impact of background sound on ZS sound clas-
sification using ATMs, we synthetically generated soundscapes
using the Scraper library [16]. The foreground samples were
drawn from UrbanSound8k [17], while the background sound-
scape samples were taken from TAU Urban Acoustic Scenes
2019 [18]. We generated new soundscapes by pairing each Ur-
banSound8k foreground sound with one random background
sample from three indoor (Shopping Mall, Metro Station, Air-
port) and three outdoor (Park, Public Square, Street Traffic) en-
vironments, varying the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) across three
levels, namely 6, 8, and 10 dB. The selected values ensure that
foreground sounds remain salient sounds, while preserving the
background’s texture-like qualities. Values below 6 dB make
the foreground indistinguishable from the background, whereas
values above 10 dB minimize the impact of the background,
consistent with the insights from previous work [19].
Figure 1 shows the classification performance of different
sources from UrbanSound8k in the presence of background,
compared to a reference performance of the sounds in isolation.
1github.com/eacevedo1/AudioText-ContextDA.git
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
1328 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-886

In every case, we observe a notable decline in performance once
the background soundscape is introduced. Performance degra-
dation is tied to SNR levels—lower SNR (higher background
presence) results in poorer performance. This decrease is con-
sistent across both indoor and outdoor environments, with SNR
being the primary factor affecting the model.
Park
Airport
Shopping MallStreet TrafficPublic SquareMetro Station
Background T ype
40
45
50
55
60
65
70
75Accuracy (%)
61.0
57.1 55.8
61.1
55.6 56.2
63.0
59.8 58.7
63.3
58.0 58.3
64.8
62.1 61.3
64.9
59.9 60.4
Reference Performance 73.1
6dB 8dB 10dB
Figure 1: Impact of background soundscape on zero-shot sound
classification accuracy across different acoustic environments.
The plot compares model performance under 6 dB, 8 dB, and
10 dB SNR conditions against the reference performance (i.e.
isolated sources).
In addition to evaluating downstream task performance, we
measured the cosine distance between text anchors and gener-
ated soundscapes, which averaged 0.76–slightly higher than the
0.73 observed with isolated foreground sounds. To investigate
whether explicitly providing background information could im-
prove performance, we modified the prompt to include the
background type (e.g., ’This is a sound of LABEL
in the BACKGROUND TYPE’ ). This adjustment improved
the alignment between text anchors and audio embeddings, re-
ducing the cosine distance to 0.67. However, this improve-
ment did not result in better classification performance across
all background types. Moreover, we conducted ZS classifica-
tion on the background soundscapes alone, achieving an accu-
racy of only 33.0%, which is significantly lower than 63.3%
reported in the acoustic scene classification baseline [18]. This
suggests that the model struggles to differentiate between vari-
ous background types. These results imply that the concept of
“background” is not well represented as a high-level concept
within the model.
However, we observed that some background infor-
mation was encoded within the model. For instance,
when queried with Airport soundscapes, the model re-
turned classes such as bell, pedestrians and phone ringing .
Similarly, the prompt ’Public square sound in the
background’ yielded results like people talking , pedestri-
ans, and footsteps. These findings suggest that the model en-
codes some relationships between background soundscapes and
individual classes. In addition, we observed that the model’s
classification errors were systematically linked to the back-
ground sound sources. For example, when adding Street Traffic
soundscapes, the model top confusions are with sirens, engine
idling, and car horns, or when adding Shopping Mall the model
main confusions are street music, air conditioner and children
playing. Adding a background soundscape transforms the au-
dio into polyphonic, which poses significant challenges for pro-
totypical approaches, as they struggle to represent overlapping
sources as a single point in the latent space. This limitation
arises from the uniform aggregation of both temporal and tim-
bral information, which fails to capture the inherent complex-
ity of polyphonic acoustic scenes, as previously noted in [20].
Each individual background sound source influences the posi-
tion of the query audio embedding with respect to different text
anchors (i.e. the classes), diminishing confidence in a single
foreground sound. This leads to unintended confusion between
classes in the task and those present in the background sound-
scape that are acoustically similar or overlapping.
To study the effect of polyphony, we generated a dataset
of 1000 samples without background, varying the number of
classes per audio (C/A) by combining UrbanSound8k fore-
ground sounds. We performed multi-label sound classification
on this dataset, and results are shown in Table 1. We observe
that with a fixed classification threshold, the average number of
predicted classes per audio (Pred. C/A) decreases as the com-
plexity of the audio scene increases, resulting in lower accuracy.
We include both ZS and supervised approaches (i.e., using the
class centroid based on annotations) to demonstrate that this ef-
fect is not specific to the audio-text model but is inherent to the
prototype-based methods.
Zero-Shot Supervised
C/A Accuracy Pred. C/A Accuracy Pred. C/A
1 59.5 0.9 71.4 0.8
2 50.8 0.8 43.7 0.6
3 48.5 0.6 39.3 0.4
Table 1: Performance comparison between zero-shot (text an-
chors) and Supervised (class centroid) modes on multi-label
audio classification with varying numbers of classes per audio
(C/A).
In summary, our experiments show that ATMs struggle to
represent background as a coherent concept, making DA diffi-
cult. Adding background soundscapes turns audio into poly-
phonic, causing confusion and reducing classification confi-
dence, which ultimately degrades model performance. Hence,
to effectively address DA, the background should be treated as a
combination of sound sources rather than a standalone concept,
reducing its impact on the final classification.
3. Method Proposed
Sound classification task in this context implies accurately iden-
tifying a foreground sound embedded within a background
soundscape (e.g., detecting a dog barking in a metro station
soundscape). The audio to be classified consists of a mixture
of the foreground sound and the background soundscape, which
we refer to as test audio soundscape as shown in Figure 2. To
address DA, we first define the profile concept as a vector of co-
sine similarity scores between a test audio embedding and the
class prototypes. We begin the method by calculating the profile
for the test audio soundscape.
Rather than just using this profile for classification, we
refine it by subtracting the “contribution” of the background
soundscape. To achieve this, we compute the background
profile separately, using one of two approaches: (i) Text
approach, where textual prompts describing the background
are compared to class prototypes to get the profile, and (ii)
background Audio approach, where an actual background
1329

AUDIO-TEXT JOINT EMBEDDING
Prototypes
dog barking in the metro station
Audio 
Encoder
Test Audio
Audio Embeddings
Text 
Encoder
Text Embeddings
This is the sound of 
Metro Station
Background Prompt
Engine idling
Dog Barking
Street Music
Background Proﬁle
Dog barkingEngine idling Street Music
Test Audio Proﬁle
Final Proﬁle
Dog barkingEngine idling Street Music
Dog barkingEngine idling Street Music
Figure 2: Proposed method for domain adaptation in prototypical sound classification. The method quantifies the background’s contri-
bution to the test audio soundscape and refines class estimation by subtracting its influence. First, the test audio profile is calculated
by measuring the similarity between the test audio embedding and the class prototypes. Next, a background profile is generated, either
from text descriptions or audio recordings, and subtracted from the test audio profile to minimize the impact of background classes.
audio recording is used to get the profile. Both approaches
can use single or average multiple prompts or recordings
for a more robust background profile. For instance, the best
results for the Text approach were obtained by averaging
the profiles of three prompts: ’This is a sound of
BACKGROUND TYPE’ , ’BACKGROUND TYPE sounds
in the background’ , and ’This is a sound of
BACKGROUND TYPE in the background’ .
After computing both the test audio and background pro-
files, we combine them to obtain a refined classification pro-
file. This is done by subtracting the background profile from
the soundscape profile, reducing the influence of background
classes. The relationship is defined as:
Pf =Ps −Pb ×τ (1)
wherePs andPb represent the test audio profile and the back-
ground profile, respectively, and the parameter τ controls the
degree of background influence on the final classification.
4. On the Audio-Text Modality Gap
So far, we have mentioned how prototypical approaches in
ATMs struggle to represent polyphonic acoustic scenes and to
effectively leverage text. Apart from this, ATMs also face the
challenge of themodality gap, wherein embeddings from differ-
ent modalities are separated into distinct regions within the la-
tent space. Despite its strong performance, LION-CLAP is not
immune to the modality gap. On the UrbanSound8k dataset, we
observed that the audio and text embeddings are linearly sep-
arable, with intra-modality distances consistently smaller than
inter-modality distances. In particular, for any given class, the
corresponding text anchors are typically farther from the audio
samples of that class than from audio centroids of other classes,
highlighting the persistent nature of this issue.
This modality misalignment suggests that relying solely on
text anchors might limit the performance of zero-shot sound
classification. Motivated by this, we explored recent work [15],
which introduced a multimodal prototypical approach that we
called Text-Guided Audio Prototype(TGAP). This method gen-
erates class prototypes by retrieving theN closest unlabeled au-
dio embeddings to a text prompt and calculating their centroid,
which becomes the prototype for classification. The method is
fully unsupervised, without the need for re-training. The TGAP
method consistently improves sound classification performance
over simple ZS classification across various datasets. To under-
stand the source of this improvement, we examined the cosine
distances from (i) text-based prototypes, (ii) TGAP-generated
centroids and (iii) real centroids to corresponding class audio
samples, as illustrated in Figure 3.
air conditioner
car horn
children playing
dog barkdrilling
engine idling
gun shot
jackhammer
siren
street music
Classes
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8Cosine Distance
T ext Anchors TGAP Prototypes Audio Centroids
Figure 3: Comparison of cosine distances between audio sam-
ples and three types of class prototypes across multiple sound
classes: text-based anchors (red), TGAP estimated centroids
(blue), and real audio centroids (yellow) in UrbanSound8k.
The experiment shows that text anchors prototypes (red)
have the highest cosine distances, indicating poor alignment
with audio samples. TGAP prototypes (blue) significantly re-
duce this distance, demonstrating improved alignment with the
audio embeddings. Real audio centroids (yellow), derived us-
ing labels, represent the case of no modality gap. Then, TGAP
significantly reduces the modality gap compared to text-based
1330

Zero-Shot TGAP
Background Baseline Text Audio Baseline Text Audio
Park 61.0 62.2 64.3 65.7 67.7 72.2
Airport 57.1 58.8 60.3 65.1 66.3 70.2
Shopping Mall 55.8 57.5 60.2 63.2 65.2 68.7
Street Traffic 61.1 63.5 66.8 68.8 70.6 72.6
Public Square 55.6 60.5 62.1 64.1 65.8 71.3
Metro Station 56.2 58.3 63.0 60.5 63.0 68.1
Zero-Shot Reference: 73.1 TGAP Reference: 76.9
Table 2: Performance comparison of Zero-Shot and TGAP approach across various context backgrounds using SNR of 6 dB. Using no
domain adaptation (Baseline), domain adaptation methods using text (Text) and audio (Audio) to get the background profile.
prototypes. These findings highlight the critical role of modality
alignment in zero-shot sound classification and the effectiveness
of TGAP in narrowing the modality gap.
5. Results and discussion
The results of our proposed method for ZS sound classifica-
tion are shown in Table 2. We compare three settings: no do-
main adaptation (Baseline), text-based adaptation (Text), and
audio-based adaptation (Audio). Both adaptation approaches
consistently improve performance across all background envi-
ronments, with audio-based adaptation achieving the best re-
sults. The proposed method is flexible and effective with both
text anchors and TGAP prototypes. Applying the method to
TGAP confirms its superior performance across different back-
ground types. Notably, the reduction in the modality gap pro-
vided by TGAP, also consistently boosts the performance com-
pared to ZS. Audio-based adaptation also performs better with
the TGAP method. We attribute this to the fact that actual back-
ground recordings offer a more precise and accurate representa-
tion than text descriptions. As mentioned earlier, text struggles
to fully capture the background concept, making audio a more
reliable source for adaptation.
All the results above were computed with a fixed SNR of
6dB. Figure 4 explores performance across varying SNRs (6,
8 and 10 dB) for both ZS and TGAP methods averaging over
all background types. Our proposed adaptation consistently im-
proves performance at all SNR levels, with audio-based adap-
tation consistently yielding the highest gains. Regarding the
parameter τ, we optimized it using a grid search (0 to 1 in
0.1 steps), identifying 0.2 for text-based and 0.7 for audio-
based adaptation as generally optimal. These values achieved
a balance in background subtraction, as lowerτ underestimated
background effects, while higherτ overcompensated, reducing
performance. The optimal value showed slight variations de-
pending on the specific context and SNR’s.
While the synthetic dataset allowed precise control over
factors such as sound sources, polyphony, and SNR’s, we also
validated the generalization of our approach using the TUT
datasets (DCASE SED Challenge 2016 [21] and 2017 [22]),
which introduced real-world complexity with labeled fore-
ground and background audio. The audio samples were seg-
mented into 10-second chunks, with labels assigned based on
annotations, and chunks without any class presence were cat-
egorized as background for the audio-based adaptation. Due
to the dataset’s structure, TGAP could not be applied, as iso-
lated class instances within each chunk were unavailable. Ap-
plying the zero-shot method, the results obtained were 32.4%
with the baseline, 32.3% with text-based adaptation, and 42.4%
with audio-based adaptation, showing that text-based adapta-
tion does not hurt performance, while audio-based adaptation
significantly improves it.
6 8 1040
45
50
55
60
65
70
75Accuracy (%)
57.8
60.2
62.2
60.1
62.0
63.762.8
64.3
65.7
Zero-Shot
6 8 10
64.6
66.3
67.9
66.4
68.2
69.670.5
71.6 72.5
TGAP
SNR (dB)
Baseline T ext Audio
Figure 4: Average performance across all backgrounds under
varying SNRs. The Zero-Shot method is shown on the left, and
TGAP on the right, with Baseline, Text, and Audio evaluation
setups in each.
In brief, our proposed DA method proves effective across
different background environments and SNR levels, demon-
strating the method’s robustness and versatility for broader
sound classification tasks. We consistently improve Zero-Shot
and TGAP performance. While both text and audio approaches
enhance accuracy, audio-based adaptation delivers the most sig-
nificant gains.
6. Conclusions and future work
We show how prototypical audio-text models face challenges in
coherently representing background as a concept, which leads
to confusion and performance degradation when classifying
sounds in real-world settings. To address these challenges, we
propose a domain adaptation method that significantly improves
classification accuracy in various background environments and
SNR levels. Notably, audio-based adaptations outperform text-
based approaches, delivering the most substantial gains. Our
experiments also underscore the crucial role of modality align-
ment in zero-shot sound classification, showing that models ca-
pable of minimizing the modality gap experience a marked per-
formance boost. An automatic selection of this parameter τ is
left for future research.
1331

7. References
[1] A. Guzhov, F. Raue, J. Hees, and A. Dengel, “Audioclip: Extend-
ing clip to image, text and audio,” in ICASSP 2022-2022 IEEE
International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Pro-
cessing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2022, pp. 976–980.
[2] B. Elizalde, S. Deshmukh, M. Al Ismail, and H. Wang, “Clap
learning audio concepts from natural language supervision,” in
ICASSP 2023-2023 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics,
Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–5.
[3] G. Rey Gozalo and J. M. Barrig´on Morillas, “Analysis of sampling
methodologies for noise pollution assessment and the impact on
the population,” International journal of environmental research
and public health, vol. 13, no. 5, p. 490, 2016.
[4] P. Foggia, N. Petkov, A. Saggese, N. Strisciuglio, and M. Vento,
“Audio surveillance of roads: A system for detecting anomalous
sounds,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Sys-
tems, vol. 17, no. 1, pp. 279–288, 2016.
[5] J. Z. Huang, H. Chhabria, and D. Jain, ““Not There Yet”:
Feasibility and Challenges of Mobile Sound Recognition to
Support Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing People,” inProceedings of the
25th International ACM SIGACCESS Conference on Computers
and Accessibility , ser. ASSETS ’23. New York, NY , USA:
Association for Computing Machinery, 2023. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3597638.3608431
[6] J. Renaud, R. Karam, M. Salomon, and R. Couturier, “Deep
learning and gradient boosting for urban environmental noise
monitoring in smart cities,” Expert Systems with Applications ,
vol. 218, p. 119568, 2023. [Online]. Available: https://www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957417423000696
[7] Y . Wu*, K. Chen*, T. Zhang*, Y . Hui*, T. Berg-Kirkpatrick,
and S. Dubnov, “Large-scale contrastive language-audio pretrain-
ing with feature fusion and keyword-to-caption augmentation,” in
IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing, ICASSP, 2023.
[8] R. O. Araz, D. Bogdanov, P. Alonso-Jim´enez, and F. Font, “Evalu-
ation of deep audio representations for semantic sound similarity,”
IN PRESS, 2024.
[9] S. Deshmukh, R. Singh, and B. Raj, “Domain adapta-
tion for contrastive audio-language models,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.09585, 2024.
[10] A. Hanif, M. T. Agro, M. A. Qazi, and H. Aldarmaki, “Palm: Few-
shot prompt learning for audio language models,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2409.19806, 2024.
[11] H.-H. Wu, O. Nieto, J. P. Bello, and J. Salamon, “Audio-text mod-
els do not yet leverage natural language,” in ICASSP 2023-2023
IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–5.
[12] A. Fahim, A. Murphy, and A. Fyshe, “Its not a modality gap:
Characterizing and addressing the contrastive gap,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2405.18570, 2024.
[13] V . W. Liang, Y . Zhang, Y . Kwon, S. Yeung, and J. Y . Zou,
“Mind the gap: Understanding the modality gap in multi-modal
contrastive representation learning,” in Advances in Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems, S. Koyejo, S. Mohamed, A. Agarwal,
D. Belgrave, K. Cho, and A. Oh, Eds., vol. 35. Curran
Associates, Inc., 2022, pp. 17 612–17 625. [Online]. Avail-
able: https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper files/paper/2022/file/
702f4db7543a7432431df588d57bc7c9-Paper-Conference.pdf
[14] T. Kouzelis and V . Katsouros, “Weakly-supervised auto-
mated audio captioning via text only training,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.12242, 2023.
[15] S. S. Kushwaha and M. Fuentes, “A multimodal prototypical
approach for unsupervised sound classification,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2306.12300, 2023.
[16] J. Salamon, D. MacConnell, M. Cartwright, P. Li, and J. P. Bello,
“Scaper: A library for soundscape synthesis and augmentation,”
in 2017 IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to
Audio and Acoustics (WASPAA). IEEE, 2017, pp. 344–348.
[17] J. Salamon, C. Jacoby, and J. P. Bello, “A dataset and taxonomy
for urban sound research,” inProceedings of the 22nd ACM inter-
national conference on Multimedia, 2014, pp. 1041–1044.
[18] A. Mesaros, T. Heittola, and T. Virtanen, “A multi-device dataset
for urban acoustic scene classification,” in Proceedings of the
Detection and Classification of Acoustic Scenes and Events 2018
Workshop (DCASE2018), November 2018, pp. 9–13. [Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.09840
[19] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak
supervision,” in International conference on machine learning .
PMLR, 2023, pp. 28 492–28 518.
[20] D. Dogan, H. Xie, T. Heittola, and T. Virtanen, “Multi-label zero-
shot audio classification with temporal attention,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2409.00408, 2024.
[21] A. Mesaros, T. Heittola, and T. Virtanen, “TUT database for
acoustic scene classification and sound event detection,” in 24th
European Signal Processing Conference 2016 (EUSIPCO 2016),
Budapest, Hungary, 2016.
[22] A. Mesaros, T. Heittola, A. Diment, B. Elizalde, A. Shah, E. Vin-
cent, B. Raj, and T. Virtanen, “DCASE 2017 challenge setup:
Tasks, datasets and baseline system,” inProceedings of the Detec-
tion and Classification of Acoustic Scenes and Events 2017 Work-
shop (DCASE2017), November 2017, pp. 85–92.
1332
