WhisperD: Dementia Speech Recognition and Filler Word Detection with
Whisper
Emmanuel Akinrintoyo, Nadine Abdelhalim, Nicole Salomons
I-X and Department of Computing, Imperial College London, UK
[e.akinrintoyo23, nadine.abdelhalim23, n.salomons]@imperial.ac.uk
Abstract
Whisper fails to correctly transcribe dementia speech because
persons with dementia (PwDs) often exhibit irregular speech
patterns and disfluencies such as pauses, repetitions, and frag-
mented sentences. It was trained on standard speech and may
have had little or no exposure to dementia-affected speech.
However, correct transcription is vital for dementia speech for
cost-effective diagnosis and the development of assistive tech-
nology. In this work, we fine-tune Whisper with the open-
source dementia speech dataset (DementiaBank) and our in-
house dataset to improve its word error rate (WER). The fine-
tuning also includes filler words to ascertain the filler inclu-
sion rate (FIR) and F1 score. The fine-tuned models signif-
icantly outperformed the off-the-shelf models. The medium-
sized model achieved a WER of 0.24, outperforming previous
work. Similarly, there was a notable generalisability to unseen
data and speech patterns.
Index Terms: Dementia, Whisper, ASR, Filler words, Speech-
to-text, Speech recognition, Disfluency, Fine-tuning
1. INTRODUCTION
Dementia is an umbrella term that describes various symptoms
that impact memory, thinking, communication, and social abil-
ities [1]. Persons with dementia (PwDs) experience a cognitive
decline that impacts their ability to communicate and use lan-
guage effectively [1]. The decline stems from neurodegenera-
tive changes in the brain that affect aspects of language such
as speaking. PwDs may struggle to find the right words or form
coherent sentences, often exhibiting incorrect or irregular gram-
mar [2]. PwDs speak with nuances that includes an increased
use of disfluencies, such as pauses, irregular pitch and volume
of the voice, and filler words [2].
Filler words are sounds or unnecessary words that do not
contribute to the meaning of a sentence but are used by people
to fill pauses or give themselves time to think [3, 4]. Filler words
(such as uh and um) are prevalent in speech impairments asso-
ciated with conditions such as dementia [2]. Patterns and use of
fillers by PwDs are vital markers of cognitive impairment [5, 2].
Fillers are used when a PwD is experiencing cognitive load or
strain, is unsure of what to say, or is trying to process their re-
sponse. Hence, fillers contain rich information that can be used
to detect dementia or track its progression [6]. For instance,
some previous research has shown the effectiveness of demen-
tia detection from transcripts that included repeated speech por-
tions and filler words [7].
Adaptive and personalised responses can be provided by
smart devices, such as conversational agents or robots through
filler detection. By analysing fillers, a system can identify com-
mon patterns of hesitation in the speech of a PwD. This can then
be used to deliver a more tailored and supportive interaction.
Furthermore, fillers can also help detect symptoms of dis-
orientation during a conversation with a PwD [8]. Disorienta-
tion is often reflected in an increased duration, frequency, and
irregular usage of fillers. When a PwD is disorientated, they can
struggle to process information or recall details, thus leading to
an increase in filler words [9].
In addition, the quality of speech of PwDs is degraded as the
syndrome progresses [8, 2]. Thus, a longitudinal study of dis-
fluencies and filler patterns over a period can be combined with
other cognitive indicators to identify the progression of demen-
tia. This can aid caregivers and dementia professionals in mak-
ing proactive adjustments for a PwD’s cognitive care plan [10].
Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) systems such as
OpenAI’s Whisper [11] offer cost-effective solutions for de-
mentia speech understanding, including the ability to detect
fillers. Despite its impressive performance for speech transcrip-
tion, previous research has shown that Whisper has some limita-
tions. Similar to previous ASR solutions, it suffers performance
degradation with pathological speech [12]. Notably, Whisper is
designed to generate clean output transcriptions. It mostly ex-
cludes filler words from its outputs.
1.1. Prior Work
Previous work has explored various solutions for understand-
ing dementia speech. This includes the conformer-based speech
recognition system by Wang et al. [13]. The system’s accu-
racy was assessed with the WER (word error rate). It achieved
a reduction of 13.6% absolute (34.8% relative) to the baseline
while also achieving the best-reported accuracy of 91.2% for
Alzheimer’s detection. Others have used Whisper for dementia
detection and classification [14, 15] and have recorded signif-
icant performances compared to previous work with F1 scores
of 86.42% and 84.50%.
Other research has explored systems for filler detection and
classification specifically for the dementia population [16, 17,
10]. Previous work such by Soleimani et al. [18] found that
dementia detection is feasible by encoding filler words (such as
uh and um) in text-based language models.
Sanguedolce et al. [12] demonstrated Whisper’s potential to
achieve excellent performance when fine-tuned for pathological
speech with fillers included. The authors fine-tuned Whisper
for persons with stroke (PwS) and obtained a WER of 21.5%
on the AphasiaBank dataset, surpassing previous models. Pre-
vious research by Wagner et al. [19] examined Whisper’s fine-
tuning for filler word inclusion. A state-of-the-art performance
was achieved by adjusting the model tokeniser with F1 scores
greater than 0.92 for collar values between 0.5 and 0.6 seconds
on the PodcastFillers Corpus [4]. We adopt a similar approach
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
1413 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2099

to Wagner et al. [19] with Whisper by adjusting the tokeniser to
train it on dementia speech.
In this work, we explore Whisper’s performance when fine-
tuned on the speech of PwDs for improved WER. Unlike pre-
vious work, we utilise the DementiaBank’s Pitt and Kempler
datasets with our internal dementia speech dataset, achieving
state-of-the-art performance. We modify Whisper’s tokeniser
to include filler words ( uh and um). Filler words are included
in the dataset for the model’s training and inference. In the sub-
sequent sections, we present the methodology adopted with the
findings and evaluation of the model.
2. METHODOLOGY
2.1. Dataset
The DementiaBank dataset was utilised to fine-tune Whisper.
This comprised of the Pitt [20], and Kempler [21] datasets.
The Pitt dataset consists of 306 PwDs in a longitudinal study.
The participants completed tasks such as describing the Boston
Cookie Theft stimulus photo [22], word fluency, story recall and
sentence construction. Similarly, the Kempler dataset contains
descriptions of the Cookie Theft picture and some conversations
between the six participants and the investigators. The audio
files were transcribed manually using the CHAT (Codes for the
Human Analysis of Transcripts) protocol [23].
In addition, we used our in-house CONNECT dataset col-
lected from our robot-based individual cognitive stimulation
therapy (iCST) [24, 25] sessions with PwDs. iCST is a non-
pharmacological personalised intervention that aims to improve
cognitive function, quality of life, and social participation of
people with mild to moderate dementia [26]. Five PwDs ( ¯x =
83.2 years) completed one-to-one 20-minutes sessions with a
Misty robot [27] on two iCST activities. This included famous
places and common sayings activities in which PwDs discussed
about landmarks and popular proverbs and their meanings. The
audio samples were transcribed and verified by two of the re-
searchers.
2.2. Dataset Pre-Preprocessing
Sentence-level segmentation was adopted as a pre-processing
step to divide continuous text into individual sentences. This
was necessary to ensure that each audio segment remains within
the optimal length constraint of 30 seconds. This was influenced
by the design limitations of Whisper. Whisper is not optimised
for processing audio inputs exceeding 30 seconds in a single
pass. Hence, longer recordings must be segmented into smaller
chunks to preserve the natural structure of the speech.
The interviewers’ speech was removed from the audio dur-
ing the segmentation, leaving only the speech of PwDs in the
dataset. The transcriptions were cleaned to ensure text and lan-
guage consistency. This involved deleting text markers such as
“xxx”, which were used to indicate segments where the speech
of a PwD could not be deciphered. It also included normalising
informal or colloquial words such as “hafta” to “have to”.
A similar training approach to the original methodology
for Whisper is adopted by incorporating speech and non-speech
segments. This is to enhance WhisperD’s ability to accurately
detect and process dementia speech. It is crucial to improve
voice activity detection (V AD), which is vital to differentiate
between spoken and silent periods. This is particularly bene-
ficial for dementia speech, where PwDs often speak with fre-
quent pauses, extended silences, and irregular speech rhythms.
Hence, the inclusion of non-speech segments reduces the like-
lihood of misclassifying silence as speech or vice versa. More-
over, it increases WhisperD’s robustness to real-world scenarios
where speech is interspersed with silence, background noise, or
other non-verbal sounds.
Furthermore, we excluded audio files with a duration below
one second from the dataset to avoid potential processing issues
for Whisper. Hence, all audio files in the dataset have a length
between 1 and 30 seconds, inclusive. The audio files were con-
verted to .wav format to ensure suitability with the model. A
resampling size of 16,000 Hz was used for all audio files, simi-
lar to the off-the-shelf models.
There were a total of 11,397 audio samples after cleaning
and sentence-level segmentation. The speech dataset was a to-
tal of 11.39 hours, with large portions of silence removed from
the original datasets. The segmentation accuracy was verified
by the authors. This was done by using the Whisper Large vari-
ant to transcribe each audio sample for a comparison with the
original transcripts obtained from the CHAT (Codes for the Hu-
man Analysis of Transcripts) files. Audio files with a similarity
index below 70% were then carefully reviewed to correct any
transcription errors. 70% was chosen as a threshold to balance
sensitivity and efficiency. Audio files with speech that were
completely inaudible were excluded from the dataset.
Disfluencies such as filler words ( uh and um) are included
in the dataset to ensure it learns to include them in its output.
There were a total of 1699 uh and 614 um in the dataset. We
found that uh is more prevalent in dementia speech. Symbols
and characters were excluded from the dataset, except apostro-
phes. Extra spaces were also removed for clean transcriptions.
2.3. Evaluation Metrics
WhisperD’s performance was evaluated at the end of each
epoch using the Word Error Rate (WER) metric. WER com-
pares the overall accuracy of the ASR by comparing the pre-
dicted transcript with the reference transcript. WER is the sum
of substitutions, insertions and deletions divided by the total
number of words in the reference transcription. A lower WER
indicates better performance. WER is calculated as:
WER = S + D + I
N
where:
• S = Number of substitutions (incorrect words replacing cor-
rect ones)
• D = Number of deletions (words omitted from the reference)
• I = Number of insertions (extra words added by the model)
• N = Total number of words in the reference transcription
Furthermore, Filler Inclusion Rate (FIR) was used as a met-
ric. FIR measures how accurately the ASR transcribes filler
words (uh and um) compared to the reference transcript. This
is calculated by dividing the number of correctly detected fillers
by the total number of fillers. FIR is set to one (i.e., a perfect
score) to avoid division by zero when there are no filler words
in the reference text.
Since FIR ignores false positives, the F1 score was com-
puted to provide a fuller picture of the model’s performance.
The F1 score is the harmonic mean of precision and recall.
2.4. Whisper Training
Whisper is a transformer-based architecture consisting of an
encoder and a decoder with similar width and transformer
blocks [11]. An 80-channel log-magnitude Mel spectrogram is
1414

MODEL V ALIDA TION SET TEST SET
WER FIR F1 WER FIR F1
Whisper-T 0.77 0.03 0.05 0.89 0.07 0.13
WhisperD-T 0.66 0.50 0.61 0.50 0.42 0.57
Whisper-B 0.81 0.06 0.10 0.81 0.06 0.11
WhisperD-B 0.39 0.35 0.49 0.43 0.33 0.46
Whisper-S 0.45 0.05 0.08 0.48 0.05 0.11
WhisperD-S 0.29 0.73 0.72 0.28 0.72 0.76
Whisper-M 0.42 0.06 0.11 0.39 0.04 0.09
WhisperD-M 0.25 0.64 0.71 0.24 0.70 0.73
Table 1: Performance Metrics for Whisper Models (Tiny, Base, Small, Medium) and their WhisperD (fine-tuned) Variants: Comparison
of Word Error Rate (WER), and Filler Inclusion Rate (FIR), F1 Score.
T vs B T vs ST vs M B vs SB vs MS vs M
0
5
10
15
20
Model Comparisons
Speed Factor (× Faster)
Dementia
Control
Figure 1: Speed Comparison of Whisper Models (Tiny (T), Base
(B), Small (S) and Medium (M)): Dementia vs Control Speech
generated using 25-millisecond windows with a 10-millisecond
stride. Whisper has different sizes: tiny (Whisper-T, 39M pa-
rameters), base (Whisper-B, 74M parameters), small (Whisper-
S, 244M parameters), medium (Whisper-M, 769M parameters)
and large (Whisper-L, 1550M parameters). The tiny, base,
small, and medium-sized models are examined in this work for
developing variants of WhisperD.
Pre-trained Whisper models were imported from Hugging
Face. The PyTorch and Hugging Face Transformers libraries
were used to fine-tune the standard models to develop Whis-
perD. We fine-tuned all the layers of Whisper to include both
the encoder and decoder for optimal performance. The fine-
tuning process involved adjusting a model’s parameters to adapt
it to the dementia speech dataset. Whisper’s tokeniser was mod-
ified to include filler words (uh and um). This is to enhance the
model’s ability to recognise and encode these filler words.
The dataset was split with a ratio of 80-10-10% for the
training, validation, and test sets. The training and validation
sets contain the same speakers. However, these speakers were
excluded from the test set. The speakers in the test set were se-
lected from the Pitt dataset. This was done to ensure that the
model is not evaluated on the speech patterns it encountered in
the training phase. This prevents data leakage and allows for a
more accurate assessment of the model’s ability to generalise to
unseen speakers. This approach is reliable for measuring real-
world performance.
AdamW, an adaptive optimisation algorithm, was chosen to
provide training stability and generalisation. A learning rate of
1.2e-5 was used with a weight decay of 0.01 to reduce overfit-
ting. The scheduler was set with a cosine learning rate decay.
It had a warm-up period of 650 steps. Gradient accumulation
was used with a batch size of eight and an accumulation step
of eight, hence simulating a batch size of 64. The models were
trained for a maximum of five epochs, and the best-performing
model was chosen. Cross-entropy loss function was applied at
each step to optimise token prediction. The loss is averaged
across the batch during training.
3. Evaluation and Results
3.1. Off-the-Shelf Models
We performed initial assessments of the off-the-shelf Whisper
models. A transcription test was performed with 100 audio files
with the tiny, base, small, and medium models. This was per-
formed using Intel’s 13th Gen i7-1370P Processor 1900 MHz
with 14 Core(s). The analysis revealed that due to Whisper’s
sequence-to-sequence style, it often uses the context of the sen-
tence or words preceding to match the words that align next.
This was verified by examining Whisper’s token prediction ar-
ray. For instance, the highest probability sequence for a speech
segment was “Water is the picture, just tell me everything”.
However, Whisper’s final output was “This is the picture, just
tell me everything”.
While the structured output ensures grammatical correct-
ness and clarity, it can limit the performance in transcribing de-
mentia speech. A PwD can make corrections while speaking.
PwDs can often change their thoughts mid-sentence (referred
to as thought derailment [28]) with hesitations and fragmented
statements. These nuances may be lost when the model priori-
tises fluency over authenticity.
The test results (Figure 1) showed that the Whisper-T model
was 1.83× faster than the Whisper-B, 7.92× faster than the
Whisper-S, and 18.96× faster than the Whisper-M. Whisper-B
was 4.32× faster than the Whisper-S model and 10.34× faster
than Whisper-M. The Whisper-S model was 2.39× faster than
the Whisper-M model. A similar test was performed with
the control speech dataset. It revealed that Whisper-T was
1.64× faster than Whisper-B, 3.99× faster than Whisper-S, and
1415

9.35× faster than Whisper-M. Whisper-B was 2.44× faster than
Whisper-S and 5.71× faster than Whisper-M. Whisper-S was
2.34× faster than the Whisper-M.
The results revealed that transcribing dementia speech sig-
nificantly impacts the processing speed of Whisper, especially
for larger models. This could be due to the higher disfluency,
increased ambiguity, and more decoding passes needed to tran-
scribe dementia speech. Whisper may have to make repeated
attempts at recognition.
Since Whisper tends to omit filler words such as uh and um
in its transcriptions, it often considers a filler word as part of
the next word such that it mistranscribes the actual word. For
instance, “uh distinct” is transcribed as “staked”. In addition,
Whisper outputted nothing when the volume was low due to a
PwD speaking with a low voice, and hallucinates when it fails to
understand the speech of a PwD. Notably, it struggled with how
PwDs pronounced words such as “bureau” which it transcribed
as either “biro”, “b-roll”, “pure”, or “do you roll?”.
3.2. WhisperD vs. Off-the-Shelf Models
Table 1 compares the performance of four off-the-shelf Whis-
per models (Whisper-T, Whisper-B, Whisper-S, and Whisper-
M) with their fine-tuned versions (WhisperD variants). The re-
sults show that the WhisperD models significantly outperform
their corresponding Whisper models. Notably, the performance
remains constant across both the validation and test sets for the
best-performing models.
WhisperD’s performance for the test set demonstrates its
ability to generalise well to unseen data and speech patterns
across the variants. It achieved a low WER for the test set, with
a better WER performance than the validation sets for all sizes
except WhisperD-B. The average WER reduction for Whis-
perD models compared to their corresponding Whisper models
is 0.36 and 0.43 for the validation and test sets, respectively.
WhisperD-B and WhisperD-T have the highest WER perfor-
mance improvement (0.42 and 0.39) from the standard models
for the validation and test sets, respectively.
WhisperD models outperform Whisper models in recall and
precision (measured by F1 score) for filler word detection. They
detect far more filler words in comparison to Whisper models.
WhisperD-S has the best performance across the validation and
test sets for filler detection. While FIR is high for WhisperD
models, the increase in F1 indicates that it is due to improved
detection rather than excessive false positives. WhisperD is not
just over-inserting filler words, it is identifying them correctly.
However, the F1 scores recorded in this work are below previ-
ous work by Wagner et al. [19] which examined filler detection
on standard speech with the PodcastFillers dataset containing
over 17,000 instances of both uh and um individually.
4. Discussion
The standard Whisper models were trained on 30-second au-
dio clips. This provides sufficient context for Whisper, such
that it uses previously generated text tokens to ensure coher-
ence in its prediction. WhisperD was trained with shorter au-
dio clips. Hence, WhisperD is optimised to handle fragmented
speech patterns, which are common in clinical and diagnostic
settings. This allows it to excel in scenarios where short, iso-
lated speech segments must be transcribed accurately without
extended context. This is beneficial for use cases such as clini-
cal interviews, cognitive assessments, and robot-assisted speech
interventions, where responses are often brief with little or no
contextual continuity.
WhisperD was developed with the original DementiaBank
datasets without noise filters applied, unlike those used for the
dementia classification challenges. Hence, the reported results
are indicative of the model’s real-world performance. Impor-
tantly, this work demonstrates the potential to develop ASR sys-
tems with an improved understanding of dementia speech. This
is notable for ASRs with multi-lingual capabilities.
WhisperD models can serve as a cost-effective screening
tool for dementia, without tester variability. They can be used
to process and analyse speech patterns to identify early signs of
cognitive decline, and detect dementia with progression track-
ing. Prior work such as Weiner et al. [29] has demonstrated
the effectiveness of ASRs in dementia detection pipeline. No-
tably, WhisperD demonstrates that a multilingual model has the
potential to detect dementia speech patterns across various lan-
guages and dialects when fine-tuned, providing accessibility for
diverse populations.
Overall, WhisperD-M and WhisperD-S are the best mod-
els, balancing low WER and high F1 scores. WhisperD-S per-
formed better with its highest F1 score (0.76 on the test set).
However, WhisperD-M might be better for general use with
its lowest WER (0.24 on the test set). The WER achieved by
WhisperD-M outperforms previous work in [8, 30, 31, 13, 32].
5. Limitations
A dataset of 11.39 hours is relatively short. Expanding the train-
ing dataset would likely yield better results in terms of Whis-
perD’s ability to learn domain-specific patterns and acoustic
variations. Techniques such as speed perturbation can be used
to increase the size of the dataset. In addition, the inclusion of
speech disfluency datasets such as PodcastFillers [4] may in-
crease the performance of WhisperD for filler detection.
The quality of the dataset also influenced the overall perfor-
mance. A key challenge encountered was the presence of mum-
bled and unclear speech in some audio samples. There were
some unintelligible words that could not be transcribed in the
DementiaBank datasets since they were too ambiguous or in-
audible for human annotators and researchers. However, Whis-
perD attempted to predict them using the surrounding context.
While this is beneficial, it led to increased WER. This affected
WhisperD’s performance, not necessarily due to poor transcrip-
tion ability, but as a result of discrepancies between human-
annotated transcripts and model predictions.
6. Conclusion and Future Work
In this work, WhisperD was proposed as a specialised model
for transcribing dementia speech. It outperformed the standard
Whisper models, highlighting its immense potential to serve
as a comprehensive solution for dementia speech understand-
ing with the inclusion of filler words. It achieved state-of-the-
art WER performance, with strong generalisability to unseen
speech. This can significantly improve early diagnosis and ac-
cessibility to clinical assessments and assistive devices.
Future work will examine the performance of the Whisper
Large variant. It has the potential to achieve higher transcription
accuracy and better robustness to disordered speech patterns.
However, given the increased model complexity and parameter
count, it may require more extensive datasets to reach its full
potential. Therefore, future work will expand the dataset, espe-
cially through the collection of speech data from PwDs through
our robot-based iCST study.
1416

7. References
[1] D. S. Geldmacher and P. J. Whitehouse, “Evaluation of dementia,”
New England Journal of Medicine, vol. 335, no. 5, pp. 330–336,
1996.
[2] C. I. Guinn and A. Habash, “Language analysis of speakers with
dementia of the alzheimer’s type,” in 2012 AAAI fall symposium
series, 2012.
[3] E. Duvall, A. Robbins, T. Graham, and S. Divett, “Exploring filler
words and their impact,”Schwa. Language & Linguistics, vol. 11,
pp. 35–49, 2014.
[4] G. Zhu, J.-P. Caceres, and J. Salamon, “Filler word detection and
classification: A dataset and benchmark,” in Proc. Interspeech
2022, 2022.
[5] H. Bortfeld, S. D. Leon, J. E. Bloom, M. F. Schober, and S. E.
Brennan, “Disfluency rates in conversation: Effects of age, rela-
tionship, topic, role, and gender,” Language and speech, vol. 44,
no. 2, pp. 123–147, 2001.
[6] D. Woszczyk, R. Aloufi, and S. Demetriou, “Prosody-driven
privacy-preserving dementia detection,” in Proc. Interspeech
2024, 2024.
[7] L. Mato ˇsevi´c and A. Jovi´c, “Accurate detection of dementia from
speech transcripts using Roberta model,” in 2022 45th Jubilee
International Convention on Information, Communication and
Electronic Technology (MIPRO). IEEE, 2022, pp. 1478–1484.
[8] B. Mirheidari, D. Blackburn, T. Walker, A. Venneri, M. Reuber,
and H. Christensen, “Detecting signs of dementia using word vec-
tor representations.” in Interspeech, 2018, pp. 1893–1897.
[9] I. Ovchinnikova and A. Pavlova, “Lexical substitution and para-
phasia in advanced dementia of the alzheimer type,” Psychology
of Language and Communication , vol. 21, no. 1, pp. 306–324,
2017.
[10] M. Zolnoori, A. Zolnour, and M. Topaz, “Adscreen: A speech
processing-based screening system for automatic identification of
patients with alzheimer’s disease and related dementia,” Artificial
Intelligence in Medicine, vol. 143, p. 102624, 2023.
[11] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak
supervision,” in International conference on machine learning .
PMLR, 2023, pp. 28 492–28 518.
[12] G. Sanguedolce, S. Brook, D. C. Gruia, P. A. Naylor, and F. Ger-
anmayeh, “When whisper listens to aphasia: Advancing robust
post-stroke speech recognition,” in Proc. Interspeech 2024, 2024,
pp. 1995–1999.
[13] T. Wang, J. Deng, M. Geng, Z. Ye, S. Hu, Y . Wang, M. Cui,
Z. Jin, X. Liu, and H. Meng, “Conformer based elderly speech
recognition system for alzheimer’s disease detection,” inProc. In-
terspeech 2022, 2022.
[14] T. Deußer, A. M. Siddiqi, L. Sparrenberg, T. Adams, C. Bauck-
hage, and R. Sifa, “Fusing speech and language models for de-
mentia detection,” in 2024 IEEE International Conference on Big
Data (BigData), 2024, pp. 3908–3914.
[15] J. Li and W.-Q. Zhang, “Whisper-based transfer learning for
alzheimer disease classification: Leveraging speech segments
with full transcripts as prompts,” in ICASSP 2024 - 2024 IEEE
International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Pro-
cessing (ICASSP), 2024, pp. 11 211–11 215.
[16] M. Rohanian, J. Hough, and M. Purver, “Alzheimer’s dementia
recognition using acoustic, lexical, disfluency and speech pause
features robust to noisy inputs,” in Proc. Interspeech 2021, 2021.
[17] S. Nasreen, M. Rohanian, J. Hough, and M. Purver, “Alzheimer’s
dementia recognition from spontaneous speech using disfluency
and interactional features,” Frontiers in Computer Science, vol. 3,
p. 640669, 2021.
[18] R. Soleimani, S. Guo, K. L. Haley, A. Jacks, and E. Lobaton, “The
impact of pause and filler word encoding on dementia detection
with contrastive learning,” Applied Sciences, vol. 14, no. 19, p.
8879, 2024.
[19] L. Wagner, B. Thallinger, and M. Zusag, “Crisperwhisper: Accu-
rate timestamps on verbatim speech transcriptions,” in Proc. In-
terspeech 2024, 2024.
[20] J. T. Becker, F. Boiler, O. L. Lopez, J. Saxton, and
K. L. McGonigle, “The natural history of alzheimer’s disease:
Description of study cohort and accuracy of diagnosis,”
Archives of Neurology , vol. 51, no. 6, pp. 585–594, 06
1994. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1001/archneur.1994.
00540180063015
[21] D. Kempler, S. Curtiss, and C. Jackson, “Syntactic preservation in
alzheimer’s disease,” Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing
Research, vol. 30, no. 3, pp. 343–350, 1987. [Online]. Available:
https://pubs.asha.org/doi/abs/10.1044/jshr.3003.343
[22] C. Roth, “Boston diagnostic aphasia examination,” Encyclopedia
of clinical neuropsychology, pp. 428–430, 2011.
[23] B. MacWhinney, The CHILDES project: Tools for analyzing talk,
Volume I: Transcription format and programs. Psychology Press,
2014.
[24] E. Akinrintoyo and N. Salomons, “Co-designing icst with so-
cial robots for long-term in-home deployment for persons with
dementia,” Proceedings of the 2024 ACM/IEEE International
Conference on Human-Robot Interaction Workshop on Ageing in
Place, 2024.
[25] ——, “In-home social robots design for cognitive stimulation
therapy in dementia care,” 2025 34th IEEE International Con-
ference on Robot and Human Interactive Communication (RO-
MAN), 2025.
[26] L. A. Yates, P. Leung, V . Orgeta, A. Spector, and M. Orrell, “The
development of individual cognitive stimulation therapy (iCST)
for dementia,” Clinical interventions in aging, pp. 95–104, 2015.
[27] S. Srinivasan, “Misty-A development platform for socially assis-
tive robots [student’s corner],”IEEE Robotics & Automation Mag-
azine, vol. 26, no. 2, pp. 103–105, 2019.
[28] J. Jer ´onimo, T. Queir´os, E. Cheniaux, and D. Telles-Correia, “For-
mal thought disorders–historical roots,” Frontiers in Psychiatry,
vol. 9, p. 572, 2018.
[29] J. Weiner, M. Engelbart, and T. Schultz, “Manual and automatic
transcriptions in dementia detection from speech.” inInterspeech,
2017, pp. 3117–3121.
[30] Y . Pan, B. Mirheidari, M. Reuber, A. Venneri, D. Blackburn, and
H. Christensen, “Improving detection of alzheimer’s disease using
automatic speech recognition to identify high-quality segments
for more robust feature extraction,” inProceedings of Interspeech
2020. International Speech Communication Association (ISCA),
2020, pp. 4961–4965.
[31] Z. Ye, S. Hu, J. Li, X. Xie, M. Geng, J. Yu, J. Xu, B. Xue, S. Liu,
X. Liu et al., “Development of the cuhk elderly speech recognition
system for neurocognitive disorder detection using the demen-
tiabank corpus,” in ICASSP 2021-2021 IEEE International Con-
ference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) .
IEEE, 2021, pp. 6433–6437.
[32] Y . Pan, B. Mirheidari, D. Blackburn, and H. Christensen, “A two-
step attention-based feature combination cross-attention system
for speech-based dementia detection,” IEEE Transactions on Au-
dio, Speech and Language Processing, 2025.
1417
