TalTech Systems for the Interspeech 2025 ML-SUPERB 2.0 Challenge
Tanel Alum¨ae, Artem Fedorchenko
Department of Software Science, Tallinn University of Technology, Estonia
tanel.alumae@taltech.ee, artem.fedorchenko@taltech.ee
Abstract
This paper describes the language identification and multilin-
gual speech recognition system developed at Tallinn University
of Technology for the Interspeech 2025 ML-SUPERB 2.0 Chal-
lenge. A hybrid language identification system is used, con-
sisting of a pretrained language embedding model and a light-
weight speech recognition model with a shared encoder across
languages and language-specific bigram language models. For
speech recognition, three models are used, where only a single
model is applied for each language, depending on the training
data availability and performance on held-out data. The model
set consists of a finetuned version of SeamlessM4T, MMS-1B-
all with custom language adapters and MMS-zeroshot. The sys-
tem obtained the top overall score in the challenge.
Index Terms: multilingual speech recognition, spoken lan-
guage identification
1. Introduction
The ML-SUPERB 2.0 Interspeech 2025 Challenge was held
with the aim to advance the state-of-the-art in multilingual au-
tomatic speech recognition (ASR) and language identification
(LID) systems, with a particular focus on improving perfor-
mance across a diverse range of languages and language vari-
eties. The challenge evaluated systems on 154 unique languages
and over 200 language varieties, using a comprehensive scoring
system that considers six metrics: average LID accuracy and
Character Error Rate (CER) across all languages, average CER
for the 15 worst-performing languages, CER standard devia-
tion, and average LID accuracy and CER across language vari-
eties. Participants were allowed to use any available datasets
and pretrained models, provided they can perform inference
within 24GB of GPU VRAM and without internet connection.
This challenge built upon previous SUPERB initiatives [1] but
shifted focus from speech representations to developing robust
multilingual ASR and LID systems that ensure no language is
”left behind” in speech technology advancement.
The system developed at Tallinn University of Technology
(TalTech) for this challenge follows an rule-based pipeline ap-
proach: first, a LID model determines the utterance language,
then selects the most appropriate ASR model for that language.
Since LID accuracy is crucial in this setup, we focused on de-
veloping a robust LID system that combines two components:
an audio-based language embedding model and a novel gener-
ative model. The generative model uses a lightweight multi-
lingual ASR system to identify the language with the highest
likelihood decode path, allowing thus to also rely on linguis-
tic constraints. Given the challenge’s diverse language set, we
primarily used existing multilingual ASR models, developing
new models only for languages that were not supported by these
models or performed poorly. Our system achieved the high-
est combined score in the challenge, including the lowest mean
ASR CER, the best overall LID accuracy and the highest dialec-
tal LID accuracy.
2. Methods
2.1. Language identification
We use a hybrid spoken LID model, consisting of a language
embedding model with a logistic regression classifier and a gen-
erative multilingual speech recognition model.
2.1.1. Language embeddings model
The backbone of the language embedding model is the speech
encoder module from the SeamlessM4T speech translation
and recognition model 1 [2]. This speech encoder employs a
W2V-BERT 2.0 model with a Conformer architecture. It was
fine-tuned on 43,772 hours of supervised ASR and speech trans-
lation data (as part of the encoder-decoder model), after being
pre-trained on vast amounts of unlabelled speech. This com-
bination enables it to capture a wide range of phonetic and
prosodic features across languages.
The speech encoder module has 24 Conformer layers with
1024-dimensional outputs that are kept frozen during training
the language embedding model. The outputs from individual
layers are aggregated using dimension-specific weighted aver-
age, where the weights specific to each dimension sum to one.
That is, the weights are represented by a 1024× 24 matrix.
The sequence of 1024-dimensional aggregated speech encod-
ings is then pooled using multi-resolution multi-head attention
[3]. We used 4 attention heads with two-layer 256-dimensional
affine hidden layers. The output from the pooling layer is 8192-
dimensional, corresponding to 4 heads and both mean and stan-
dard deviation based pooling. This output is then further pro-
cessed by two 512-dimensional hidden layers with ReLU non-
linearity and finally by a softmax layer. The model is trained
on the V oxLingua107 dataset [4] using cross-entropy loss. The
model is trained for four epochs, using an effective batch size of
384 utterances, peak learning rate of 10−2 and weight decay of
0.0001. Reverberation and background noises were used during
training, both with a probability of 0.5 per training utterance.
We employed the Room Impulse Response and Noise Database
from OpenSLR2 and used background noises from the MUSAN
corpus and simulated impulse responses generated for training
ASR models [5]. After training is complete, 512-dimensional
language embeddings can be extracted from the output of the
1https://huggingface.co/facebook/
seamless-m4t-v2-large
2https://www.openslr.org/28/
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2098 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1797

MMS zeroshot
CTC model of uroman characters
CTC posteriors of uroman chacters
Afrikaans:
Lexicon
Bigram LM
Amharic:
Lexicon
Bigram LM
Russian:
Lexicon
Bigram LM
Text: nakom is
paal as ta
Score: 1785
Text: እነ ከምቲ
በዘለለ
Score: 1786
Text: по знаком
тыс казалось та
Score: 1810
...
...
Figure 1: Schematic diagram of the generative LID model based
on the MMS-zeroshot model.
first hidden layer after the pooling layer (before applying the
ReLU activation).
In order to train the final language embedding based lan-
guage classifier, we extracted embeddings for a subset of ML-
SUPERB 2.0 training data, augmented with our custom web-
scraped data for languages that were not present in the provided
data (see Section 3). This aggregated dataset was filtered to con-
tain up to one hour of speech per language. The final classifier
consists of length normalization, LDA with the output dimen-
sionality of 100 and logistic regression.
2.1.2. Generative language identifier
The generative classifier is inspired by phonotactic LID mod-
els (e.g., [6, 7] and previous work on accent-robust language
classification [8]. Phonotactic spoken LID models work by
converting speech into sequences of phonetic units, using sev-
eral monolingual or one universal phone recognition model.
The likelihood of observed phoneme sequences under each lan-
guage’s phonotactic constraints, typically modeled using N-
gram models that are estimated on the phone transcripts of
language-specific training data, is then used to classify the spo-
ken language.
The backbone of our generative language classifier is the
recently proposed MMS-zeroshot ASR model [9]. Instead
of language-independent allophones, the model uses common
Latin script characters (known as uroman characters) as its in-
termediate representation. The model trains on labeled data
from 1,078 languages, with all labels converted to romanized
text (so-called uroman characters). Using uroman characters
instead of allophones offers a key advantage: mapping low-
resource languages to uroman is more reliable than creating
word pronunciation lexicons or grapheme-to-phoneme convert-
ers, which typically require linguistic expertise. The model uses
the uroman toolkit [10] for romanization, which maps charac-
ters through heuristics rather than language-specific dictionar-
ies, enabling support for diverse scripts and languages. Also,
unlike phonotactic models that need language-specific audio
training data to estimate phoneme-based N-gram models, the
proposed model needs only textual data for each target language
for training.
Figure 1 illustrates our LID model based on MMS-zeroshot.
The process begins by passing an utterance through the MMS-
zeroshot CTC model, which produces a sequence of poste-
rior probabilities over uroman characters and the blank symbol.
These posteriors are then decoded using language-specific de-
coders, each combining a bigram language model (LM) with a
lexicon that maps words to uroman. This generates ASR hy-
potheses and total decoding scores for each language. We use
only the scores, selecting the language with the highest score
as the identification result (i.e., Russian on Figure 1). When
a probability distribution over target languages is needed, we
normalize the scores to sum to one. While this approach re-
quires separate n-gram based decoding for each target language,
the computational cost remains reasonable. The CTC posterior
computation occurs only once, and the language-specific de-
coding steps can run in parallel on CPUs using compact bigram
LMs. Our implementation applies this model to an average ut-
terance from the development set in around one second.
Since we use a pretrained MMS-zeroshot ASR model, we
don’t need any audio data for training this model – only textual
data is needed for building the LMs. For most target languages,
we used data from the GlotLID Corpus 3 which contains texts
for training the GlotLID text-based LID model [11]. For six
languages not present in this corpus (Batak, Fulah, Min Nan
Chinese, Southern Thai, Northeastern Thai, Yoloxochitl Mix-
tec), we scraped data from web sources.
To create the LMs for the LID system, we first sampled up
to 100 000 lines randomly from each language’s training data.
For each language, we then generated a 10 000-token vocabu-
lary using the unigram LM sentence-piece approach [12]. These
tokens served as the basis for training bigram LMs with Kneser-
Ney smoothing. We used the uroman library [10] to create the
lexicon that maps these subword tokens to uroman characters.
2.2. Speech recognition
For speech recognition, we relied on three models: Seam-
lessM4Tv2, MMS-1B-all, and MMS-zeroshot.
2.2.1. SeamlessM4Tv2
SeamlessM4Tv2 is a large pretrained speech recognition and
translation model using an encoder-decoder architecture. The
model supports speech recognition for approximately 100 lan-
guages and is primarily trained on web-scraped data containing
both audio and corresponding (pseudo-)transcripts, such as sub-
titles.
Due to the use of weakly-supervised transcripts during
training, SeamlessM4Tv2 doesn’t always produce exact tran-
scriptions of speech segments. For example, it might reorder
words or replace them with synonyms. To address this limita-
tion and ensure the model follows the challenge data’s transcrip-
tion conventions (such as writing numbers as words), we fine-
tuned SeamlessM4Tv2 using the provided training set. We fil-
tered this training data to include only the languages and scripts
that SeamlessM4Tv2 supports.
3https://huggingface.co/datasets/cis-lmu/
glotlid-corpus
2099

Table 1: Summary of the sources of extra data that was used for training audio-based LID, ASR and LM-based LID models.
LID ASR LM
Amis https://klokah.tw https://klokah.tw
Sediq https://klokah.tw https://klokah.tw
Balinese IND-eth [13]
Batak IND-eth [13] https://halomoantondang.blogspot.com
Haitian IARPA-babel201b-v0.2b (LDC2017S03)
Northern Thai Thai Dialect Corpus [14] [14]
Quechua Siminchik [15]
Southern Thai Thai Dialect Corpus [14] [14] https://www.sanook.com
Tagalog IARPA-babel106-v0.2g (LDC2016S13)
Tok Pisin IARPA-babel207b-v1.0e (LDC2018S02)
Northeastern Thai Thai Dialect Corpus [14] [14] [14]
Fulah Leipzig Corpus [16]
Min Nan Chinese CommonV oice CommonV oice
Yoloxochitl Mixtec OpenSLR 89 [17] [17] [17]
Sinhala OpenSLR 52 [18]
Highland Totonac OpenSLR 107 [19]
2.2.2. MMS-1B-all
This multilingual ASR model is part of Facebook’s Massive
Multilingual Speech (MMS) project [20]. The model uses a
wav2vec2.0 encoder with 1 billion parameters. The encoder
was first pretrained using wav2vec2’s self-supervised approach
on approximately 500,000 hours of speech data covering over
1,400 languages. The model is finetuned for multilingual CTC-
based ASR in two stages: first, a multilingual dataset contain-
ing 1,107 languages and 44.7K hours of speech is used to train
shared model parameters and a shared output layer. In the sec-
ond stage, the main model is frozen, the output layer is removed,
and only language-specific adapter layers and new output layers
are trained for each language.
We employ MMS-1B-all for many languages that Seam-
lessM4Tv2 either doesn’t support or handles poorly. Addition-
ally, we trained new language adapters for several languages
and scripts that either lack native support in MMS-1B-all or for
which we discovered suitable training data. These languages
include Amis, Min Nan Chinese, Sinhala, Southern Thai, High-
land Totonac, Sediq, Northeastern Thai, and Yoloxochitl Mix-
tec.
2.2.3. MMS-zeroshot
As described in section 2.1.2, MMS-zeroshot is a multilingual
ASR model that intrinsically produces a CTC probability distri-
bution over uroman characters and can be thus used for decod-
ing any language, given a LM (using language’s native charac-
ters) and a lexicon that maps LM units to uroman characters.
We used MMS-zeroshot for a few languages that were not
supported by neither SeamlessM4T nor MMS-1b-all and for
which we could not find labelled ASR training data. For each
of those individual languages, we trained a 4-gram LM, using
the same vocabulary of 10,000 subwords units as was used for
LID.
3. Data
The challenge organizers provided the ML-SUPERB 2.0 pub-
lic set as a baseline dataset for both training and development.
This dataset combines various multilingual speech corpora and
covers 141 of the 153 target languages. They also provided a
Table 2: LID accuracies (%) of the two models and their uni-
form interpolation on two development sets.
Embeddings Gener. (MMS-
zeroshot)
Inter-
polated
Dev 85.3 70.7 89.9
Devdialects 80.5 73.2 84.9
development set containing 56 dialects and accents.
For training our audio-based LID model, we needed ap-
proximately one hour of unlabeled speech data per language.
We primarily used data from the public training set. For the
12 target languages not included in the public set, we collected
data from websites, public speech datasets, and IARPA BABEL
datasets obtained from the Linguistic Data Consortium (see Ta-
ble 1, column ’LID’).
To train the LMs for both the generative LID model and
MMS-zeroshot based ASR model, we used the GlotLID Cor-
pus, version 3.1. While this corpus contains data for 1941 lan-
guage/script pairs, six challenge target languages were missing.
For these languages, we gathered text data from websites and
public web corpora (Table 1, column ’LM’).
Collecting and preparing custom ASR training data is labor-
intensive due to the diverse formats of annotated speech data.
We gathered additional data for nine languages (Table 1, col-
umn ’ASR’). For Yoloxochitl Mixtec and Highland Totonac,
we utilized existing data preparation scripts from the ESPnet
toolkit [21]. For the Taiwanese indigenous languages Amis and
Sediq, we used web-scraping scripts available online 4. For the
few remaining languages, we developed our own data prepara-
tion scripts.
4. Experimental results
4.1. Language identification
Table 2 shows the LID accuracies for both individual models
and the uniform linear interpolation of the predicted likelihoods
4https://github.com/FormoSpeech/klokah_
crawler
2100

Table 3: Most common confusion errors (reference → pre-
dicted) of the combined LID model.
Dev Devdialects
Tamil→ Telugu German→ Luxembourgish
Tswana→ Southern Sotho German→ Dutch
Lungga→ Ganda Arabic→ Kabyle
Northern Frisian→ Dutch Greek→ H. P. Nahuatl
Urdu→ Hindi Arabic→ NE Thai
of the individual models. While the language embedding model
consistently performs better, combining both models through
interpolation yields substantial improvements. This combina-
tion reduces the number of errors by 31% on the regular de-
velopment set and by 23% on the development set containing
dialectal speech. We experimented with more complex meth-
ods for model combination, such as optimizing interpolation
parameters (weight and temperature scaler) based on develop-
ment data but since it provided only a slight improvements over
linear interpolation, we opted for the simpler method.
Table 3 presents the most frequent language confusion pairs
in both development sets. Most substitution errors occur be-
tween linguistically related languages, as expected. However,
two unexpected confusions appear in the dialectal development
set: Greek being misidentified as Highland Puebla Nahuatl, and
Arabic as Northeastern Thai. Since these language pairs are
linguistically distant, these errors suggest that our model hasn’t
learned robust representations for Highland Puebla Nahuatl and
Northeastern Thai. This may be due to the quality of the web-
sourced training data we used for these languages. Further anal-
ysis is needed to understand the exact causes of these errors.
4.2. Speech recognition
Table 4 shows the ASR CER results across different mod-
els, presenting the mean CER averaged over language-specific
CERs. For languages not supported by a particular model, we
use the CER from the next model up in the “hierarchy” when
calculating the overall mean. While adding larger models gen-
erally improves the average CER, this improvement doesn’t ap-
ply uniformly across all languages. Therefore, we developed
an optimized mapping of languages to models based on devel-
opment set performance, which we used as our final combined
model. This mapping is listed in Table 5. The last line in Table
4 represents our final system, which uses predicted language la-
bels from our combined LID model and an optimized mix of
ASR models, reflecting the evaluation scenario. CER results at
the language level are provided in the supplementary material5.
4.3. Evaluation
Evaluation was performed on a Dynabench server [22], using a
blind test dataset. In order to run evaluation, teams had to pack
the model’s logic and all models’ parameters to a zip file which
would then be uploaded, compiled into a container and run on
a server. The uncompressed size of our system was around 28
GB. The evaluation scores of the system, together with those
of two organizer baseline systems, are given in Table 6. Our
system was ranked as the highest in the evaluation leaderboard,
obtaining top scores in three subcategories.
5https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15550990
Table 4: CER(%) results on the two development sets, using
different ASR models, using either oracle (O) or predicted (P)
language labels.
LID Model Dev Dev dialect
O MMS-zeroshot 22.0 24.2
O + MMS-1b-all (custom) for 133 langs 9.7 17.2
O + SeamlessM4T (ft.) for 89 langs 8.2 12.7
O Optimized combination 7.9 13.6
P Optimized combination 11.7 18.5
Table 5: Mapping of languages to ASR models in our final sys-
tem.
Model: languages
MMS-zeroshot: nbl, ssw, tok, tsn, ven
MMS-1b-all: abk, amh, ami, asm, ast, azz, bak, ban, bas, bel,
bos, bre, btk, ceb, chv, cnh, cym, div, epo, frr, ful, grn, hat, hau,
heb, hin, hsb, ibo, ina, kab, kam, kan, kaz, kea, khm, kin, kmr,
lga, lin, lit, ltz, lug, luo, mhr, mkd, mri, mrj, msa, myv, nan,
nod, nso, nya, oci, orm, pan, pus, que, sah, sin, skr, slk, sna,
snd, som, sot, sou, spa, sun, tam, tat, tel, tgk, tgl, tos, tpi, trv,
tso, tts, uig, umb, uzb, wol, xho, xty, yor, zul
SeamlessM4T: afr, ara, aze, ben, bul, cat, ces, ckb, cmn, dan,
deu, ell, eng, est, eus, fas, fin, fra, gle, glg, guj, hrv, hun, hye,
ind, isl, ita, jav, jpn, kat, kir, kor, lao, lav, mal, mar, mlt, mon,
mya, nep, nld, ori, pol, por, ron, rus, slv, srp, swa, swe, tha, tur,
ukr, urd, vie, yue
5. Conclusion
We presented TalTech’s system for the ML-SUPERB 2.0 Chal-
lenge, which combines a hybrid LID approach with a hierarchi-
cal ASR model selection strategy. The LID system uses both
acoustic and linguistic information through the combination of
a language embedding model and a generative classifier, achiev-
ing 86.8% accuracy on the evaluation set. For speech recogni-
tion, we employed an optimized combination of three pretrained
and customized multilingual models, selecting the most appro-
priate model for each language based on development set per-
formance. This approach resulted in a mean CER of 27.4%
across all languages on the evaluation set.
Future work could focus on developing more efficient ways
to leverage linguistic constraints in LID. Additionally, the sig-
nificant performance variations across languages indicate that
developing targeted approaches for the most challenging lan-
guages remains an important area for improvement.
Table 6: Results of our system and two organizer baselines on
evaluation data. Rankings of our system in each individual cat-
egory are given in underscores.
Model LID↑ CER↓ STD
CER↓
CER 15
worst↓
Dialect
LID↑
Dialect
CER↓
Baseline 1 53.8 51.9 19.4 92.8 18.8 74.5
Baseline 2 74.6 57.1 33.5 118.8 0.0 65.9
Ours 86.8 1 27.4 1 23.9 5 82.5 4 56.6 1 50.0 2
2101

6. Acknowledgments
This work was supported by the Estonian Centre of Excellence
in Artificial Intelligence (EXAI).
7. References
[1] S. Yang, P. Chi, Y . Chuang, C. J. Lai, K. Lakhotia, Y . Y . Lin,
A. T. Liu, J. Shi, X. Chang, G. Lin, T. Huang, W. Tseng, K. Lee,
D. Liu, Z. Huang, S. Dong, S. Li, S. Watanabe, A. Mohamed,
and H. Lee, “SUPERB: speech processing universal performance
benchmark,” in Proc. of Interspeech, 2021.
[2] Seamless Communication, L. Barrault, Y .-A. Chung, M. C.
Meglioli, D. Dale, N. Dong, M. Duppenthaler, P.-A. Duquenne,
B. Ellis, H. Elsahar, J. Haaheim, J. Hoffman, M.-J. Hwang, H. In-
aguma, C. Klaiber, I. Kulikov, P. Li, D. Licht, J. Maillard, R. Mav-
lyutov, A. Rakotoarison, K. R. Sadagopan, A. Ramakrishnan,
T. Tran, G. Wenzek, Y . Yang, E. Ye, I. Evtimov, P. Fernandez,
C. Gao, P. Hansanti, E. Kalbassi, A. Kallet, A. Kozhevnikov,
G. M. Gonzalez, R. S. Roman, C. Touret, C. Wong, C. Wood,
B. Yu, P. Andrews, C. Balioglu, P.-J. Chen, M. R. Costa-juss `a,
M. Elbayad, H. Gong, F. Guzm ´an, K. Heffernan, S. Jain, J. Kao,
A. Lee, X. Ma, A. Mourachko, B. Peloquin, J. Pino, S. Pop-
uri, C. Ropers, S. Saleem, H. Schwenk, A. Sun, P. Tomasello,
C. Wang, J. Wang, S. Wang, and M. Williamson, “Seamless:
Multilingual expressive and streaming speech translation,” ArXiv
preprint, 2023.
[3] Z. Wang, K. Yao, X. Li, and S. Fang, “Multi-resolution multi-head
attention in deep speaker embedding,” in Proc. of ICASSP, 2020.
[4] J. Valk and T. Alum ¨ae, “V oxLingua107: a dataset for spoken lan-
guage recognition,” in Proc. IEEE SLT Workshop, 2021.
[5] T. Ko, V . Peddinti, D. Povey, M. L. Seltzer, and S. Khudanpur,
“A study on data augmentation of reverberant speech for robust
speech recognition,” in Proc. of ICASSP, 2017.
[6] L. Lamel and J. Gauvain, “Language identification using phone-
based acoustic likelihoods,” in Proc. of ICASSP, 1994.
[7] M. A. Zissman, “Language identification using phoneme recog-
nition and phonotactic language modeling,” in Proc. of ICASSP.
IEEE, 1995.
[8] K. Kukk and T. Alum ¨ae, “Improving language identification of
accented speech,” in Proc. of Interspeech, 2022.
[9] J. Zhao, V . Pratap, and M. Auli, “Scaling a simple approach to
zero-shot speech recognition,” ArXiv preprint, 2024.
[10] U. Hermjakob, J. May, and K. Knight, “Out-of-the-box universal
Romanization tool uroman,” in Proceedings of ACL 2018, System
Demonstrations, 2018.
[11] A. H. Kargaran, A. Imani, F. Yvon, and H. Schuetze, “GlotLID:
Language identification for low-resource languages,” in Findings
of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023 ,
2023.
[12] T. Kudo, “Subword regularization: Improving neural network
translation models with multiple subword candidates,” in Proc.
of ACL, 2018.
[13] S. Sakti and B. A. Titalim, “Leveraging the multilingual Indone-
sian ethnic languages dataset in self-supervised models for low-
resource ASR task,” Proc. of ASRU, 2023.
[14] A. Suwanbandit, B. Naowarat, O. Sangpetch, and E. Chuang-
suwanich, “Thai dialect corpus and transfer-based curriculum
learning investigation for dialect automatic speech recognition,”
in Proc. of Interspeech, 2023.
[15] R. Cardenas, R. Zevallos, R. Baquerizo, and L. Camacho, “Sim-
inchik: A speech corpus for preservation of Southern Quechua,”
ISI-NLP 2, 2018.
[16] D. Goldhahn, T. Eckart, and U. Quasthoff, “Building large mono-
lingual dictionaries at the Leipzig corpora collection: From 100
to 200 languages,” in Proc. of LREC, 2012.
[17] J. Shi, J. D. Amith, R. Castillo Garc ´ıa, E. Guadalupe Sierra,
K. Duh, and S. Watanabe, “Leveraging end-to-end ASR for
endangered language documentation: An empirical study on
Yol´oxochitl Mixtec,” in Proc. of EACL, 2021.
[18] O. Kjartansson, S. Sarin, K. Pipatsrisawat, M. Jansche, and
L. Ha, “Crowd-sourced speech corpora for Javanese, Sundanese,
Sinhala, Nepali, and Bangladeshi Bengali,” in Proc. The 6th
Intl. Workshop on Spoken Language Technologies for Under-
Resourced Languages (SLTU), 2018.
[19] D. Berrebbi, J. Shi, B. Yan, O. L ´opez-Francisco, J. D. Amith, and
S. Watanabe, “Combining spectral and self-supervised features
for low resource speech recognition and translation,” in Proc. of
Interspeech, 2022.
[20] V . Pratap, A. Tjandra, B. Shi, P. Tomasello, A. Babu, S. Kundu,
A. Elkahky, Z. Ni, A. Vyas, M. Fazel-Zarandi, A. Baevski, Y . Adi,
X. Zhang, W.-N. Hsu, A. Conneau, and M. Auli, “Scaling speech
technology to 1,000+ languages,” ArXiv preprint, 2023.
[21] S. Watanabe, T. Hori, S. Karita, T. Hayashi, J. Nishitoba, Y . Unno,
N. E. Y . Soplin, J. Heymann, M. Wiesner, N. Chen, A. Ren-
duchintala, and T. Ochiai, “Espnet: End-to-end speech processing
toolkit,” in Proc. of Interspeech, 2018.
[22] D. Kiela, M. Bartolo, Y . Nie, D. Kaushik, A. Geiger, Z. Wu,
B. Vidgen, G. Prasad, A. Singh, P. Ringshia, Z. Ma, T. Thrush,
S. Riedel, Z. Waseem, P. Stenetorp, R. Jia, M. Bansal, C. Potts,
and A. Williams, “Dynabench: Rethinking benchmarking in
NLP,” 2021.
2102
