A Study of Speech Embedding Similarities Between Australian Aboriginal and
High-Resource Languages
Eliathamby Ambikairajah1, Jingyao Wu2, Ting Dang3, Vidhyasaharan Sethu1
1University of New South Wales, Australia
2Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA
3University of Melbourne, Australia
e.ambikairajah@unsw.edu.au, jingyaow@mit.edu, ting.dang@unimelb.edu.au,
v.sethu@unsw.edu.au
Abstract
Low-resource languages, such as Australian Aboriginal Lan-
guages, are underrepresented in the AI landscape due to lim-
ited availability of digital data, which in turn hinders speech
processing model development. Leveraging sufficiently sim-
ilar high-resource languages may help bridge this gap. This
study examines the similarities between speech embeddings
of aboriginal languages and 107 high-resource languages, in-
cluding English, Spanish, and Mandarin, using Wav2Vec2 and
V oxLingua107-ECAPA-TDNN. Through three language identi-
fication tasks, we analyze Warlpiri, Dalabon, and Light Warlpiri
alongside 107 other languages. Our results reveal that aborigi-
nal languages are most frequently identified as M ¯aori, suggest-
ing phonetic or structural similarities, while showing signifi-
cant differences from globally dominant languages. Addition-
ally, we also observe that Warlpiri and Dalabon exhibited closer
matches with Hindi and Malayalam, than with other languages.
Index Terms : Australian aboriginal language, Spoken lan-
guage identification, Wav2Vec2, ECAPA-TDNN
1. Introduction
Australia, with its rich linguistic diversity, is home to over 250
Indigenous languages [1]. However, the AIATSIS 2018–19 sur-
vey reveals that only 123 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
languages are actively spoken today, and this number contin-
ues to decline [2, 3]. Additionally, modern advances in Nat-
ural Language Processing (NLP) and speech processing tech-
nologies have been predominantly developed for high-resource
languages such as English, Spanish, and Mandarin [4, 5, 6].
This focus has led to a technological divide where low-resource
languages, including Aboriginal languages, remain underrepre-
sented.
Understanding the linguistic differences and similarities be-
tween Aboriginal and high-resource languages is crucial for ef-
fective AI model development. Figure 1 demonstrates the em-
beddings in the latent space [7] of four different languages:
English, Mandarin, and two Australian Aboriginal languages
(AALs), Warlpiri and Dalabon. It should be noted that Warlpiri
is the most extensively studied Australian Aboriginal language
and has a well established dictionary [8]. It is evident that
Warlpiri and Dalabon (green and yellow) distinctly represent
the unique nature relative to widely studied languages (blue
and purple). This indicates that Aboriginal languages possess
unique characteristics that set them apart from high-resource
languages such as English and Mandarin, therefore, existing AI
models developed for high-resource languages will find it dif-
ficult to generalize to Aboriginal languages, necessitating the
analysis and model development specifically for AALs.
Additionally, studies have found that several Aboriginal
Figure 1: Distributions of speech embeddings in the latent space
for four different languages: English, Mandarin, and two Aus-
tralian Aboriginal languages, Warlpiri and Dalabon.
languages, including Warlpiri, exhibit the use of retroflex con-
sonants, a feature also found in high-resource languages like
Hindi and Tamil, indicating shared articulatory properties [9].
This suggests that despite their distinctiveness, there are cross-
linguistic articulatory overlaps that can inform comparative lin-
guistic research and preservation efforts. Therefore, identifying
languages that are similar to Aboriginal ones is essential for
advancing AI technologies to benefit Aboriginal communities.
For example, a high-resource language similar to an Aborigi-
nal language can aid in transfer learning or augment data for
low-resource languages.
Existing studies on Australian Aboriginal Languages pri-
marily focus on linguistic aspects, including the analysis of
phoneme distributions, phonology, grammar, and lexical char-
acteristics [10, 11, 12, 13]. These studies aim to understand
the linguistic uniqueness and assist in the annotation or com-
prehension of the AALs themselves. However, there has been
little research analyzing these languages from the perspective
of AI modeling, especially when compared to high-resource
languages, to explore how such analysis could aid in the de-
velopment of AI models for AALs. In this paper, we conduct
a comparative analysis of three AALs with 107 high-resource
languages as integrated into multilingual AI models, to iden-
tify which of these languages exhibit the most similarities with
AALs. This research enhances our understanding of the com-
plexities inherent in Aboriginal languages and supports efforts
to preserve and revitalize them for future generations.
In Section 2, we discuss the language similarity identifica-
tion tasks, introducing three different approaches. Sections 3
details the experimental setups including datasets, implementa-
tion details and evaluation metrics, while Section 4 presents the
results.
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
1498 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-911

Training
LID 
Systems
Pre-trained 
multilingual encoder
Pre-trained
English encoder
⋯ ⋯
⋮
⋯⋯
Multilingual speech
Classifier Classifier
Australia Aboriginal languages
EnglishChineseSpanishHindi German
𝒙! 𝒙! 𝒙!
𝑦#! 𝑦#! 𝑦#!
1 2 3
Figure 2: Three approaches for similarity identification tasks
for AAL speech utterances: i) using a LID system to output
language identification results; ii) using or fine-tuning a pre-
trained multilingual encoder with a classifier for language iden-
tification; iii) fine-tuning a pre-trained English encoder with
classifier for language identification.
2. Language similarity identification
The limited availability of speech data and the significant lack
of annotations make the analysis of AAL speech particularly
challenging. Furthermore, the absence of AI systems specifi-
cally designed for AALs further complicates speech analysis.
However, existing AI systems trained on other languages are
expected to misclassify AALs as those languages. This misclas-
sification suggests that AALs share certain linguistic and acous-
tic characteristics with the languages they are misclassified as.
Consequently, the misclassification rate could serve as an indi-
cator of similarity, where a higher misclassification rate for a
particular AAL suggests that it shares similar properties with
those languages. Building on this concept, we propose leverag-
ing pre-trained multilingual models to analyse AALs by iden-
tifying and ranking their similarities to other commonly used
languages based on misclassification rates.
2.1. Similarity identification tasks
As illustrated in Fig. 2, three approaches are employed for lan-
guage similarity identification. For an AAL speech utterance
represented by xi, the first approach utilizes a LID systemf (·),
which outputs the probabilities of classifying the utterance into
N languages, represented as yi. The predicted language label is
determined by ˆyi = arg max i yi. The second approach (Fig. 2)
involves a pre-trained multilingual encoder, which requires ad-
ditional training of classifiers for language identification. Simi-
larly, the third approach involves a pre-trained English language
encoder and also requires additional training of language iden-
tification classifiers. The output of these classifiers is also an
N-dimensional vector, represented asyi =g(zi), whereg(·) is
the classifier function, and the final language is selected based
on the maximum probability. The objective is to analyse the
misclassification rate by providing AALs as input to the LID
system or pre-trained encoders (Fig. 2). The misclassification
rate is defined as the number of AAL utterances incorrectly la-
beled as one of the known languages in the LID or encoder sys-
tems, as shown in Fig. 2.
2.2. Approach 1: LID for similarity identification
For the first approach, we utilized the V oxLingua107-ECAPA-
TDNN model [7], which was specifically developed for LID
tasks. This model was trained using 107 languages, providing
comprehensive global language coverage. Such extensive cov-
erage facilitates detailed comparative analyses between AALs
and other languages. Given an AAL speech utterance, the out-
AAL Dataset
ECAPA -TDNN
Language class
Softmax
Conv1D + Relu+ BN
SE-Res2Block
SE-Res2Block
SE-Res2Block
Conv1D + Relu+ BN
Attentive Stat Pooling + BN
FC + BN
(a) LID
(b) ECAPA –TDNN Model Structure
Figure 3: (a) LID for similarity identification using
VoxLingua107-ECAPA-TDNN model. (b) Detailed network
topology of the VoxLingua107-ECAPA-TDNN model.
put is a 107-dimensional vector representing the probabilities of
each language class. The misclassification rate was calculated
based on the predicted language class.
The model uses the ECAPA-TDNN model structure that in-
corporates channel attention, propagation, and aggregation in
Time Delay Neural Network. As shown in Fig. 3(b), the model
utilizes convolutional layers followed by Squeeze-Excitation
Res2Blocks (SE-Res2Blocks) [14]. These blocks include di-
lated convolutions within residual structures and a 1D Squeeze-
Excitation block, allowing the model to capture temporal dy-
namics and preserve salient acoustic and linguistic information
throughout the network. The latent embeddings from all SE-
Res2Blocks are concatenated and passed through a fully convo-
lutional layer with batch normalization. Channel- and context-
dependent attentive statistics pooling is employed to extract
the most salient feature representations, which are then trans-
formed by fully connected layers to produce the VoxET em-
beddings. These embeddings are subsequently classified into
107 language categories using a softmax layer, as shown in Fig.
3(a).
2.3. Pre-trained encoders for similarity identification
To allow for flexibility in similarity identification tasks, we
also explored pre-trained encoders with additional training. We
aim to deepen our understanding of how AALs compare to
widely used, resource-rich languages such as English. These
high-resource languages can greatly influence AAL due to their
abundant resources, which can be leveraged to advance AAL
technologies. Consequently, we can select languages of partic-
ular interest and train the pre-trained encoders with classifiers
to gain a more comprehensive understanding of the similarities.
2.3.1. Language selection
We selected 14 languages out of 107, to conduct a detailed
analysis of AALs. This selection includes four widely spo-
ken languages, such as English, Spanish, Mandarin, and Hindi,
for which most current systems and datasets have been devel-
oped. Additionally, we included the top ten most similar lan-
guages identified in LID tasks: M¯aori, Finnish, Tamil, Javanese,
Malayalam, Swahili, Telugu, Tibetan, Pashto, and Assamese.
As there are no pre-trained models available for these specific
14 languages, we trained the LID system using the dataset for
this selection. During the inference phase, we evaluated AAL
speech utterances to determine which of the 14 languages each
1499

256 →128
128 →64
64 →14
768 →512
512 →256
256 →128
128 →64
64 →14
Wav2Vec2 embeddings for AALs
Identified languages
Identified languages
𝐶𝑙𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑓𝑖𝑒𝑟
Tegulu
Maori
Mandarin
14 Selected 
Languages
AAL
Identified languages
Training
Embeddings from AALs
…
(a)
(b)
VoxLingua107-ECAPA-TDNN
embeddings for AALs
Testing
Classifier
Classifier
FC1
FC 3
⋮
FC1
FC 5
⋮⋮
Figure 4: (a) System overview of models trained on 14 selected
languages and tested using AALs. (b) Network structures of the
classifier for VoxET and Wav2Vec2 embeddings respectively.
utterance is closest to, as illustrated in Fig. 4(a).
2.3.2. Approach 2: Multilingual encoder
We also utilized V oxLingua107-ECAPA-TDNN as the pre-
trained encoder. In addition to its primary function of per-
forming LID tasks, it can serve as a pre-trained multilingual
encoder that provides 256-dimensional VoxET embeddings for
subsequent LID tasks. As illustrated in Fig. 4(b), we em-
ployed a three-layer fully-connected (FC) network, with each
layer using the tanh activation function, to classify 14 lan-
guages. The model was trained on these 14 languages and tested
on AAL speech embeddings extracted using V oxLingua107-
ECAPA-TDNN.
2.3.3. Approach 3: English-based encoder
To determine whether different model structures and pre-trained
encoders affect language similarity identification and to support
more reliable and well-grounded conclusions, we also explored
the use of Wav2Vec2 [15] as a pre-trained encoder. This en-
coder is originally trained on English data.
Wav2Vec2 is a self-supervised model designed for speech
representation learning. It processes raw audio waveforms
to learn contextualized speech features, ultimately produc-
ing speech embeddings. We utilized the Wav2Vec2 base
model, which consists of 12 Transformer layers, to extract 768-
dimensional feature embeddings and trained classifiers for the
classification of 14 language classes. As depicted in Fig. 4(b),
five FC layers withtanh activation function are used.
3. Experimental setups
3.1. Dataset
DoReCo dataset. AAL speech recordings are obtained from
DoReCo (Language DOcumentation REference COrpus) [16],
which consists of more than 50 low-resourced languages, total-
ing over 100 hours of recordings. Despite this broad linguis-
tic coverage, only a few languages originate from Australia.
Therefore, three AALs are analyzed in this work due to their
relatively higher availability of recordings: Warlpiri [17], Dal-
abon [18], and Light Warlpiri [19]. The speech recordings
are first pre-processed by removing low-quality and irrelevant
speech, such as removing recordings with background noises
(e.g., moving tables) or coughing. The remaining audio sig-
nals are then downsampled to 16 kHz. Each recording is seg-
mented into 10-second clips to fit the model input length and
maintain consistency with the utterance length in the V oxLin-
gua107 dataset. The final number of 10-second audio clips in
Warlpiri, Dalabon, and Light Warlpiri are 786, 284, and 507,
respectively.
VoxLingua107. To obtain the 14 languages for model train-
ing, we selected the corresponding speech recordings from the
V oxLingua107 dataset. It is a popular used LID dataset, fea-
turing realistic speech collected from YouTube videos. Audio
recordings are extracted from these videos, resulting in 6.6k
hours of content. This dataset consists of short speech segments
(4-10 seconds) of 107 languages spread across the world. We
only select 14 out of 107 languages for model development,
with 1,000, 100, and 300 utterances for the training, validation,
and test sets, respectively, from each language.
3.2. Implementation details
Parameters. To train the systems for identifying 14 lan-
guages, the Adam optimizer was employed with an initial learn-
ing rate optimized to 0.001 over 70 epochs. Cross-entropy was
used as the loss function. The model was run nine times using
different seed numbers to ensure robust results, and the average
performance was reported. We utilized the Facebook [20] and
SpeechBrain implementation [21] for Wav2Vec2 and V oxET.
Evaluations. Misclassification rate is used as the evaluation
metric to determine the similarity as:
σi = N i
misclassif ied
Ntotal
(1)
whereN i
misclassif ied refers to number of AAL utterances mis-
classified to language i and Ntotal is the total number of test
AALs utterances. The σi values will be ranked across all lan-
guages to identify the order of similarity.
For the tasks with pre-trained encoders, the trained model
will first be evaluated using the trained 14 languages to guaran-
tee its reliability. The performance is evaluated using the clas-
sification accuracyρ asρ = 1 −
Nmisclassif ied
Ntotal
.
4. Results
4.1. LID performance
Fig. 5 depicts the misclassification rates of Warlpiri, Dabalon,
and Light Warlpiri to the other 107 language classes. For clarity,
only the top 20 languages are displayed. The results show that
Warlpiri utterances are misclassified as M¯aori which is the most
frequent misclassification, followed by Javanese and Finnish.
Similarly, Dalabon is also most frequently misclassified into
M¯aori, followed by Assamese and Tibetan. Light Warlpiri is
most frequently misclassified into Assamese, M¯aori and Pushto.
The high misclassification rates indicate that there may be pho-
netic or acoustic similarities between these AALs and other lan-
guages, particularly M ¯aori, contributing to the model’s confu-
sion. It is possibly due to shared regional or typological features
between AAL and M ¯aori, as M ¯aori is the indigenous language
of the M ¯aori people of New Zealand which is geographically
close to Australia [22]. These similarities can potentially assist
in the annotation of AAL datasets, enhance linguistic under-
standing, and aid in AI model development.
4.2. Pre-trained encoders for similarity identification
To compare the similarities between AALs and the other 14 lan-
guages, it is essential that the models trained on these 14 lan-
guages are reliable and accurate. Therefore, we first evaluated
1500

Table 1: LID accuracy for different languages using VoxET and Wav2Vec2 embeddings.
M¯aori Finnish Tamil Javanese Malayalam Swahili Telugu Tibetan Pushto Assamese English Mandarin Spanish Hindi
VoxET 0.990 0.996 0.995 0.988 0.997 0.999 0.990 0.998 0.996 0.990 0.991 0.998 0.993 0.994
Wav2Vec2 0.652 0.665 0.586 0.583 0.538 0.608 0.470 0.666 0.651 0.550 0.922 0.766 0.679 0.627
Figure 5: Misclassification rates of (a) Warlpiri (b) Dabalon
and (c) Light Walpiri into other languages that the models are
trained on using VoxLingua107-ECAPA-TDNN model.
the performance of the models on these 14 languages to validate
their effectiveness. Subsequently, we used the trained models to
assess the similarities of AAL.
Performance for 14 languages. The classification accuracy ρ
for 14 languages is listed in Table 1. It is observed that the
model performs very well when trained and tested using V oxET
embeddings for all 14 languages, validating the effectiveness of
the trained models for the 14 languages for subsequent analysis.
AALs similarities to 14 languages. Fig. 6(a) reports the mis-
classification rates using multilingual embeddings V oxET. It is
observed that the most frequently misclassified languages are
similar to those in Section 4.1, with M ¯aori standing out at the
top of the list for all three Aboriginal languages. However, it is
noted that AALs are rarely misclassified as English, Spanish, or
Mandarin. This finding indicates that AALs do not share close
phonetic or acoustic similarities with these widely spoken lan-
guages. Interestingly, among the high-resource languages an-
alyzed, AALs are more frequently misclassified as Hindi. For
instance, in the case of Warlpiri, Hindi ranks fifth in misclas-
sification frequency as in Fig. 6(a). Similar findings are also
observed for Dalabon and Light Warlpiri. This indicates AALs
and Hindi may share common linguistic characteristics, consis-
tent with [9].
Comparison between pre-trained encoders. We further eval-
uated the performance of Wav2Vec2 embeddings and compared
them to V oxET embeddings to assess the impact of multilin-
gual encoders on the similarity identifications. Initially, we ex-
amined the performance across 14 languages, as shown in Ta-
ble 1, and compared with V oxET embeddings. We observed
that Wav2Vec2 showed worse performance across all languages
except English. This is because Wav2Vec2 is pre-trained ex-
clusively on English, causing the embeddings for non-English
languages to lack relevant information and potentially convert
distinctive language features into English-related information.
Subsequently, we analyzed the similarity of AALs to the
(a) V oxET embeddings
(b) Wav2V ec2 embeddings
Figure 6: Misclassification rates using (a) VoxET embeddings
and (b) Wav2Vec2 embeddings.
other 14 languages using this model, as in Fig. 6(b). Despite
the differences in similarity identification between the two em-
beddings, they still share some commonalities. For Warlpiri,
both models identify M¯aori and Hindi among the top five most
similar languages. Similarly, for Dalabon and Light Warlpiri,
Malayalam ranks in the top five for both models. This further
confirms that AALs share strong similarities with certain other
languages, regardless of the embeddings or models.
5. Conclusion
This study investigated which high-resource languages are most
similar to Australian Aboriginal Languages (AALs) based on
automatic language identification systems. Additionally, we
analyzed the latent representations of AALs using an English-
trained encoder and a multilingual encoder to further examine
their linguistic relationships. Our experiments focused on three
AALs—Warlpiri, Dalabon, and Light Warlpiri—and revealed
that while these languages exhibit distinct characteristics that
differentiate them from widely studied languages like English
and Mandarin, they share certain properties with M ¯aori, Hindi,
and Malayalam. These findings provide valuable insights into
the positioning of AALs in the speech embedding space and
suggest potential pathways for leveraging high-resource lan-
guages in AI-driven speech processing. Future work includes
validating these findings through linguistic analysis, exploring
their implications for AI model development, and working to-
ward greater inclusivity and representation of AALs in speech
technology.
1501

6. Acknowledgment
The authors would like to thank the School of Electrical Engi-
neering and Telecommunications at UNSW Sydney, Australia,
for providing funding for this research initiative.
7. References
[1] R. M. Dixon, Australian languages: Their nature and develop-
ment. Cambridge University Press, 2002.
[2] Australian Government, Department of Infrastructure,
Transport, Regional Development, Communications and
the Arts, “National indigenous languages report,” https:
//www.arts.gov.au/what-we-do/indigenous-arts-and-languages/
indigenous-languages-and-arts-program/
national-indigenous-languages-report, 2020, accessed on
30/09/2024.
[3] R. D. Australian Government Department of Infrastructure,
Transport and Communications, “National indigenous languages
report – chapter 3,” 2020, retrieved February 13, 2025. [Online].
Available: https://www.arts.gov.au/sites/default/files/documents/
4national-indigenous-languages-report-pdf-chapter3 0.pdf
[4] V . Pratap, A. Tjandra, B. Shi, P. Tomasello, A. Babu, S. Kundu,
A. Elkahky, Z. Ni, A. Vyas, M. Fazel-Zarandi et al. , “Scaling
speech technology to 1,000+ languages,” Journal of Machine
Learning Research, vol. 25, no. 97, pp. 1–52, 2024.
[5] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak
supervision,” in International conference on machine learning .
PMLR, 2023, pp. 28 492–28 518.
[6] W.-N. Hsu, B. Bolte, Y .-H. H. Tsai, K. Lakhotia, R. Salakhutdi-
nov, and A. Mohamed, “Hubert: Self-supervised speech represen-
tation learning by masked prediction of hidden units,”IEEE/ACM
transactions on audio, speech, and language processing, vol. 29,
pp. 3451–3460, 2021.
[7] J. Valk and T. Alum ¨ae, “V oxLingua107: a dataset for spoken lan-
guage recognition,” in Proc. IEEE SLT Workshop, 2021.
[8] M. Laughren, K. Hale, J. E. Nungarrayi, M. P. P. Jangala,
R. Hoogenraad, D. Nash, and J. Simpson,Warlpiri Encyclopaedic
Dictionary. Aboriginal Studies Press, 2022.
[9] S. R. Hamann, The phonetics and phonology of retroflexes . lot
Utrecht, The Netherlands, 2003, vol. 75.
[10] P. A. Busby, “The distribution of phonemes in australian aborigi-
nal languages,” Pacific Linguistics. Series A. Occasional Papers,
no. 60, p. 73, 1980.
[11] A. Butcher, “Linguistic aspects of australian aboriginal english,”
Clinical linguistics & phonetics, vol. 22, no. 8, pp. 625–642, 2008.
[12] I. G. Malcolm, “Australian creoles and aboriginal english: pho-
netics and phonology,” Varieties of English, vol. 3, pp. 124–141,
2008.
[13] H. Koch and R. Nordlinger, The languages and linguistics of Aus-
tralia. Berlin, Germany: De Gruyter Mouton, 2014.
[14] B. Desplanques, J. Thienpondt, and K. Demuynck, “Ecapa-
tdnn: Emphasized channel attention, propagation and ag-
gregation in tdnn based speaker verification,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2005.07143, 2020.
[15] A. Baevski, Y . Zhou, A. Mohamed, and M. Auli, “wav2vec
2.0: A framework for self-supervised learning of speech repre-
sentations,” Advances in neural information processing systems ,
vol. 33, pp. 12 449–12 460, 2020.
[16] L. Paschen, F. Delafontaine, C. Draxler, S. Fuchs, M. Stave, and
F. Seifart, “Building a time-aligned cross-linguistic reference cor-
pus from language documentation data (doreco),” in Proceedings
of the Twelfth Language Resources and Evaluation Conference ,
2020, pp. 2657–2666.
[17] C. O’Shannessy, “Warlpiri doreco dataset,” Language Docu-
mentation Reference Corpus (DoReCo) 1.2. Berlin & Lyon:
Leibniz-Zentrum Allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft & laboratoire
Dynamique Du Langage (UMR5596, CNRS & Universit ´e
Lyon 2), 2022, accessed on 30/09/2024. [Online]. Available:
https://doreco.huma-num.fr/languages/warl1254
[18] M. Ponsonnet, “Dalabon doreco dataset,” Language Docu-
mentation Reference Corpus (DoReCo) 1.2. Berlin & Lyon:
Leibniz-Zentrum Allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft & laboratoire
Dynamique Du Langage (UMR5596, CNRS & Universit ´e
Lyon 2), 2022, accessed on 30/09/2024. [Online]. Available:
https://doreco.huma-num.fr/languages/ngal1292
[19] C. O’Shannessy, “Light warlpiri doreco dataset,” Language
Documentation Reference Corpus (DoReCo) 1.2. Berlin & Lyon:
Leibniz-Zentrum Allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft & laboratoire
Dynamique Du Langage (UMR5596, CNRS & Universit ´e
Lyon 2), 2022, accessed on 30/09/2024. [Online]. Available:
https://doreco.huma-num.fr/languages/ligh1234
[20] F. AI, “wav2vec 2.0 base model,” https://huggingface.co/
facebook/wav2vec2-base, accessed: 2024-11-08.
[21] H. Face, “Speechbrain lang id model (voxlingua107 ecapa),”
https://huggingface.co/speechbrain/lang-id-voxlingua107-ecapa,
accessed: 2024-11-08.
[22] R. A. Benton, The Maori Language: Dying or Reviving?. ERIC,
1997.
1502
