On Enhancing the Performance of Children’s ASR Task in Limit ed Data
Scenario
Ankita 1, Shambhavi 2, Syed Shahnawazuddin 1
1Department of ECE, NIT Patna, India
2Computer Science Department, IIT Patna, India
ankita.ph21.ec@nitp.ac.in, shambhavi 2311ai39@iitp.ac.in, s.syed@nitp.ac.in
Abstract
In this paper, we have documented our efforts towards devel-
oping a robust children’s automatic speech recognition (AS R)
system in limited data scenario. At ﬁrst, we have explored
the effect of in-domain data augmentation so as to deal with
limitations posed by data scarcity. This also helps in devel op-
ing a competitive baseline ASR system. Next, we have stud-
ied the affect of modeling glottal activity parameters alon g
with spectrum-based front-end acoustic features like the M el-
frequency cepstral coefﬁcients (MFCC). Finally, the impac t of
feature normalization through feature-space maximum like li-
hood linear regression (fMLLR) is explored. As a consequenc e
of applying fMLLR and then concatenating the normalized
MFCC features with glottal activity parameters, a relative re-
duction in character error rate by 40% over the baseline is ob-
tained.
Index Terms: Children’s ASR, glottal activity parameter, fea-
ture normalization, fMLLR.
1. Introduction
In this paper, we present our efforts towards developing an e f-
fective automatic speech recognition (ASR) system for chil dren
in limited-data conditions using end-to-end (E2E) archite cture.
It is well known that, E2E architectures are extremely data h un-
gry [1–6]. Hence, scarcity of domain-speciﬁc data is the ﬁrs t
major hiccup in the development of an efﬁcient ASR system for
children. This fact has also been highlighted in some of the e ar-
lier works on children’s ASR [7–10]. Employing data augmen-
tation helps overcome this issue. Therefore, in this study, we
have ﬁrst resorted to in-domain data augmentation to deal wi th
the ill-effects of data scarcity. As a consequence, the deve loped
children’s ASR system yielded error-rates that were competitive
to those reported in recent works [8–12].
In order to further boost the recognition rates, we have
ﬁrst studied and documented the impact of feature normaliza -
tion. We have employed feature-space maximum likelihood
linear regression (fMLLR) for this purpose. The employed fM -
LLR transforms are optimized through speaker adaptive trai n-
ing (SA T). Hidden Markov models (HMM), with observation
densities generated through Gaussian mixture models (GMM) ,
was used for optimizing the fMLLR transforms. Feature nor-
malization through fMLLR helps in reducing the ill-effects
inter-speaker variability. Next, we have studied the impac t of
modeling the glottal activity (GA) parameters as done in [10 ].
The explored GA parameters are strength of excitation (SoE) ,
normalized auto-correlation peak strength (NAPS), and hig her-
order statistics (HOS). The GA parameters are fused with the
Mel-frequency cepstral coefﬁcients (MFCC) at the short-ti me
frame level. As argued and demonstrated in [10], feature con -
catenation helps in capturing a wider range of relevant acou stic
attributes. This, in turn, leads to reduction in error rates. Finally,
in our proposed approach, the SoE parameter is fused with the
fMLLR-normalized MFCC features. In other words, the pro-
posed idea involves appending the fMLLR-normalized MFCC
features and SoE parameter at the short-time frame level. Th e
resultant feature vectors are then used for the training pur pose.
Since, the explored glottal activity parameters exhibit ve ry low
canonical correlation when compared with the MFCC features ,
it can be concluded that these parameters capture acoustic i n-
formation missed out by MFCC. Furthermore, an analysis pre-
sented later in this paper reveals that the explored GA pa-
rameters show very little variation with age and gender of th e
child speakers. Motivated by these facts, we concatenated t he
fMLLR-normalized MFCC features and GA parameters in or-
der to capture a wider range of relevant acoustic informatio n
as well as to enhance robustness towards age and gender vari-
ations. Subsequently, signiﬁcant reductions in error-rat es over
the baseline were noted.
It is worth highlighting here that, even though fMLLR-
based normalization is a very commonly used technique, it’s
impact on children’s ASR employing E2E architecture has not
been studied yet. In [13], the role of vocal tract-length nor mal-
ization (VTLN) was employed for improving children’s speec h
recognition. However, in our experimental exploration, VT LN
was not observed to be very effective. This may be due to the
fact that no children’s data was used for training in [13]. Th e
acoustic mismatch between the training and testing data was re-
duced by the use of VTLN. Similarly, the use of GA parameters
has been studied and documented in [10]. However, the effect of
concatenating SoE parameter with fMLLR-normalized MFCC
features has not been done before.
The rest of this paper is organised as follows: In Sec-
tion 2, the proposed idea is discussed in detail. The experim en-
tal evaluations demonstrating the effectiveness of the pro posed
approach are presented in Section 3. Finally, the paper is co n-
cluded in Section 4.
2. Proposed idea
The proposed idea to enhance children’s speech recognition is
pictorially depicted in Fig. 1. It consists of three phases, namely,
in-domain data augmentation, fMLLR-based feature normaliza-
tion and feature concatenation. Each of these phases are de-
scribed in detail in the following subsections.
2.1. In-domain data augmentation
As discussed earlier, scarcity of domain-speciﬁc data is th e ﬁrst
major hiccup while developing an ASR system for children. It
is worth highlighting here that, unlike adults’ speech case , chil-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2830 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-273
0.90, 0.95, 1.05, 1.10
by a factor of
Pitch perturbation
by a factor of
Speed perturbation
0.90, 0.95, 1.05, 1.10
Mix
Train E2E model
Frame−level feature
concatenation
Output
transcription
Test data
Train data
Extract MFCC
feature SAT
transform using
Optimize fMLLR Derive fMLLR
normalized
features
Frame−level feature
concatenation
Compute GA
parameter
Compute GA
parameter
Extract MFCC
feature
Normalize
feature
Decode
Figure 1: Block diagram summarizing the proposed idea.
dren’s speech data is available in a handful of languages. At
the same time, the amount of available data is just a few tens
of hours. Paucity of data leads to signiﬁcantly lower recogn i-
tion rates in the case of children’s ASR especially when E2E
architectures are employed. Therefore, we have resorted to data
augmentation to overcome the issues related to data scarcit y.
The primary motive of employing in-domain data augmen-
tation is to increase the amount of children’s speech for tra in-
ing. For that purpose, speed and pitch perturbation are per-
formed to create newer versions with slight change in durati on
and pitch when compared to the original training data-set. T he
scaling factors are chosen as 0.90, 0.95, 1.05, 1.10 in both the
cases. As a consequence, 8 newer versions of the available chil-
dren’s training speech data are created. These newer versio ns
are pooled into training along with the unperturbed data. Th is
leads to a substantial increase in the amount of training dat a. At
the same time, we are able to capture greater diversity by app ly-
ing speed and pitch perturbation. As already mentioned earl ier,
a competitive baseline recognition performance was obtained as
a consequence of in-domain data augmentation.
2.2. Explored glottal activity parameters
At the time of voiced speech production, quick movement of
vocal folds results in high energy at the closing phase of glo ttis.
It imparts elevated strength to the voiced speech at the loca tions
of epochs. The strength estimation at the epochs are done by
passing the speech signal through zero-frequency ﬁlter (ZF F).
Next, the slope of the ﬁltered signal is calculated near the g lot-
tal closure instants (GCI) or epochs [14]. The absolute valu e
of slope yields the desired strength of excitation se[n]. SoE is
given by:
se[n] = |z[n + 1] − z[n]| (1)
where, z[n] is the zero-frequency ﬁltered signal at the nth epoch
location.
For the production of voiced sounds, the time-varying
vocal-tract system is excited by quasi-periodic glottal pu lses of
air from the lungs. The speech signal thus produced is there-
fore quasi-periodic for voiced sounds and this behaviour ca n
be characterised by taking the normalized autocorrelation peak
strength of signal z[n]. The NAPS np(σ) for a frame of ﬁltered
signal z[n] is given by:
np(σ) = ΣN
n=1z[n] ∗ z[n − σ]
ΣN
n=1z2[n] (2)
where, σ is the time-lag which represents the location of the
highest peak in 1.5-2.5 ms range.
While producing voiced speech, the glottal opening and
closing instances results in signiﬁcant excitation due to t he air-
ﬂow pressure. There is a higher strength during the closing i n-
stances compared to that of opening due to differences in the
airﬂow pressure around those instants. Consequently, the s hape
of the glottal pulse turns out to be asymmetric [15]. The powe r
of skewness-to-kurtosis ratio (skr) derived from the integ rated
linear prediction residual (ILPR) signal is used for capturing the
asymmetric characteristics of the glottal pulse and is give n by:
skr = α2
β1.5 (3)
α is the skewness of the source signal given as:
α =
1
N ΣN
n=1
(
ri[n] − ¯ri
)3
(
1
N ΣN
n=1
(
ri[n] − ¯ri
)2
) 3
2
(4)
where, ¯ri is the mean of ri[n] (the ILPR signal). On the other
hand, β is the kurtosis calculated as:
β =
1
N ΣN
n=1
(
ri[n] − ¯ri
)4
(
1
N ΣN
n=1
(
ri[n] − ¯ri
)2
)2 − 3 (5)
2.3. Motivation for using glottal activity parameters
As mentioned earlier, one of the contributions of this work i s to
study the effect of glottal activity parameters on low-reso urce
children’s ASR task. In this regard, the ﬁrst thing to do was t o
determine whether these parameters are suitable for childr en’s
2831
Table 1: Mean and variance values for the different glottal activity parameters studied in this paper . The values are tabulated w ith
respect to the age-group and gender of the child speakers.
Glottal activity 6-7 Years 8-9 Years Female Male
parameter Mean V ariance Mean V ariance Mean V ariance Mean V ariance
SoE 0.1411 0.0474 0.1317 0.0442 0.1411 0.0492 0.1726 0.0582
NAPS 0.5532 0.0713 0.5493 0.0764 0.5468 0.0743 0.5842 0.0794
HOS 0.2707 0.0609 0.2689 0.0649 0.2672 0.0644 0.2703 0.0594
-2 0 2
0
0.5
1
1.5
2 10 5 6-7 YEARS
-2 0 2
0
0.5
1
1.5
2 10 5 8-9 YEARS
-2 0 2
0
0.5
1
1.5
2 10 5 FEMALE
-2 0 2
0
0.5
1
1.5
2 10 5 MALE
Figure 2: Histogram representing the variation of SoE parame-
ter with respect to the age and gender of the child speakers.
ASR or not. For that purpose, we took speech data from 28
child speakers in the age-group 6-7 years, 45 child speakers in
the age-group 8-9 years, 51 female children, and 24 male child
speakers. This data was derived from the CMU kids speech
database [16]. The glottal activity parameters were extrac ted
from the considered speech data and histograms were derived
for each of the parameters. The histograms for SoE are shown
in Figure 2 while the mean and variance values for the same are
given in Table 1. It is clearly visible from the histograms sh own
in Figure 2 that the SoE values do not vary much with a change
in the age and gender of the speakers. Similar observations a re
noted in the case of NAPS and HOS. Since the performance of
an ASR system should be independent of the age and gender of
the speakers, similar mean values and lower variances sugge st
that the use of the explored glottal activity parameters wil l be
suitable for the ASR task. We also performed canonical cor-
relation analysis (CCA) between the MFCC features and GA
parameters. CCA resulted in very low coefﬁcients which sug-
gests that the two kinds of features are highly uncorrelated and
hence can be concatenated to capture a wider range of relevan t
acoustic information.
2.4. fMLLR-based normalization
Feature-space maximum likelihood linear regression is wel l
known and one of the most frequently used normalization tech -
niques [17]. It uses an afﬁne transform for acoustic feature nor-
malization. In the case of fMLLR, an alternate way to perform
adaptation is to apply the transformation matrix on the obse rva-
tion sequence. The transformed observation vector, ˆOt at any
time t is given as:
ˆOt = A− 1
f Ot + A− 1
f bf (6)
where, Ot is the original observation vector at time t while Af
is n×n transformation matrix and bf is an n-dimensional bias
vector. In order to optimize the fMLLR transform, we per-
formed speaker adaptive training (SA T) on a Gaussian-mixture-
model-hidden-Markov-model (GMM-HMM) based ASR sys-
tem. We have then concatenated the fMLLR-normalized MFCC
features with GA parameters and fed the resulting feature ve c-
tors as the input for E2E system training. The use of fMLLR-
based feature normalization helps in reducing the ill-effe cts of
inter- and intra-speaker variations to a large extent.
3. Experimental evaluations
3.1. Database and experimental setup
For experimental evaluations, we have used two children’s
speech corpora, namely, CMU kids [16] and CSLU kids [18].
Children’s speech training set was derived from the CMU and
CSLU kids corpora which consisted for 55.02 hours of data
from 1, 193 child speakers. We resorted to in-domain data aug-
mentation in order to increase the amount of training data. C on-
sequently, a total of 493.36 hours of children’s speech data was
available for training purpose. Two different test sets wer e cre-
ated for evaluation. A children’s speech test set comprisin g of
2.66 hours of data was derived from the CMU kids corpus. This
test set consisted of 1, 539 utterances from 75 children with a
total of 62, 925 characters. Another test set was created from
CSLU kids corpus. This test set consisted of 9.86 hours of data
from 517 child speakers. There were a total of 10, 000 utter-
ances in this test set with 151, 159 characters. To gain better
insight into the effect of the proposed approach, the test se t de-
rived form CMU kids corpus was split into two based on the age
of the speakers. The ﬁrst split ( Age-6-7) consisted data from
children in the age group 6 to 7 years. The second split ( Age-8-
9) comprised of data from speakers belonging to the ages 8 to 9
years. Further to that, another splitting was done based on t he
gender of the speakers to create two more testing subsets.
Front-end speech parameterization was done using MA T-
LAB. In the case of the MFCC features, speech data was
analyzed into short-time frames using overlapping Hamming
windows of duration 25 ms with a frame-shift of 10 ms. A
40-channel log-Mel-ﬁlterbank was used to compute the 13-
dimensional MFCC feature vectors. The base features were
time-spliced using a context size of ±4 and then de-correlated,
projected to 40 dimensional subspace and normalized using
LDA, MLLT and fMLLR, respectively. For each of the short-
time frames, the three glottal activity parameters were extracted.
The ESPnet [19] toolkit was used to develop Transformer-
2832
Table 2: CERs and WERs for the children’s speech test sets
demonstrating the effect of frame-level concatenation of M FCC
features with glottal activity parameters.
Front-end CER (in %) WER (in %)
features CMU CSLU CMU CSLU
MFCC (Baseline) 9.5 1.8 12.0 2.0
MFCC + HOS 7.3 1.7 9.5 1.9
MFCC + NAPS 7.5 1.8 9.5 2.0
MFCC + SoE 7.3 1.6 9.5 1.9
based E2E speech recognition systems. The Transformer-bas ed
E2E architecture had 12 encoder layers and 6 decoder layers.
The dimension of attention was 256 and the number of attention
heads was 4. The number of hidden units in each of the encoder
and decoder layers was of 2048. Training was performed for a
batch-size of 32 using the Noam optimizer. The label smooth-
ing weight, gradient clipping, and accumulating gradients val-
ues were 0.1, 5 and 2, respectively. Training was performed
for 20 epochs with a drop-out rate of 0.1. The language model
(LM) comprised of single layer with 1000 units and it’s train-
ing was done using character-based recurrent neural networ k
(RNN). The training of the LM was performed for 20 epochs.
The batch size was chosen to be equal to 300. Stochastic gra-
dient decent was employed for optimization. The out of vocab -
ulary rate for the trained LM was equal to 0.0%. Performance
evaluation metrics were character error rate (CER) and word
error rate (WER).
3.2. Results and discussion
The CERs and WERs for the children’s speech test sets are
given in Table 2. It is worth highlighting here that, CERs
were extremely poor ( > 70%) when in-domain data augmenta-
tion was not performed since the available data was insufﬁci ent
to train so many model parameters. In-domain data augmen-
tation reduced the baseline CERs/WERs to level where those
were similar to the performances reported in the recent stat e-of-
the-art works [8, 9] including those employing large pre-tr ained
models with ﬁne-tuning [11,12]. Furthermore, it is worth no ting
that the CERs as well as the WERs, in the case of CSLU kids
test set, are much lower than those for the CMU kids test set.
This is due to the fact that, the utterances in CSLU kids test s et
are short and majorly consist of single isolated words unlik e the
case of CMU kids. The E2E-based ASR systems are observed
to perform poorly when the utterances are long [8]. At the sam e
time, more than 90% of the training data is from the CSLU
kids corpus. Hence, the CMU kids test set is a comparatively
tougher test set. For both the test sets, WER and CER values
are observed to decrease signiﬁcantly when the glottal acti vity
parameters are concatenated. However, larger reductions a re
noted in the case CMU kids test set. Next, the effect of fMLLR
was studied. For that purpose, SoE parameter was concatenat ed
with fMLLR-normalized MFCC features. The WERs and CERs
for this study are given in Table 3. Finally, we performed a study
to determine the age-group-speciﬁc and gender-speciﬁc rec og-
nition performances. The respective CERs and WERs are also
given in Table 3. When fMLLR-normalized MFCC features
and SoE parameter are concatenated, there are signiﬁcant re -
ductions in CER as well as WER for each of the cases. Similar
trends are observed when fMLLR-normalized MFCC features
are concatenated with either HOS or NAPS parameter. These
results statistically substantiate the efﬁcacy of the prop osed ap-
Table 3: Age-group and gender-speciﬁc CERs and WERs for
children’s speech test set derived from the CMU kids corpus.
Front-end Feature Speaker CER WER
features normalization group (in %) (in %)
Full test set 7.3 9.5
Age-6-7 7.6 9.8
MFCC None Age-8-9 7.2 9.6
+ SoE Female 6.1 7.9
Male 9.6 12.9
Full test set 5.7 7.5
Age-6-7 5.3 6.6
MFCC fMLLR Age-8-9 5.8 7.9
+ SoE Female 4.6 6.0
Male 7.5 10.1
proach in the context of low-resource children’s ASR task.
Finally, we trained three different ASR systems. The ﬁrst
one (ASR-I) was trained using fMLLR-normalized MFCC fea-
tures. The second one (ASR-II) was trained on un-normalized
base MFCC features with SoE parameter appended to it. And
the third system (ASR-III) was trained on fMLLR-normalized
MFCC features with SoE parameter concatenated to it. De-
coded outputs from these three systems were compared to de-
termine if there were some underlying patterns. In other wor ds,
we tried to ﬁnd out some of those sound units whose recog-
nition improved as consequence of feature normalization an d
GA parameter concatenation. Though it is just an initial stu dy
and a more rigorous one is needed, yet we found some inter-
esting patterns. For example, dental, labiodental, alveol ar and
bilabial sound units were better recognized by ASR-I compar ed
to ASR-II. Similarly, recognition of nasal, alveolar and gl ottal
sound units was better when ASR-II was used. As a conse-
quence of this, when SoE parameters were concatenated with
fMLLR-normalized MFCC features, error got further reduced .
For example, the word OTTER was wrongly recognized ma-
jority of the times when ASR-II was used. However, it was
correctly recognized 100 percent of the times by both ASR-I
and ASR-III. Similarly, the recognition of the word MOUN-
TAINS failed majority of the time when ASR-I was employed.
However, when ASR-II or ASR-III was used, the word MOUN-
TAINS got correctly recognized all the time. Similar, trend s
were noted in the case of LIGHTNING, HOUSES and HOME.
4. Conclusion
The presented study aims at enhancing the performance of E2E
speech recognition task for children in limited data condit ions
by concatenating fMLLR-normalized MFCC features with glot-
tal activity parameters. To begin with, we have resorted to i n-
domain data augmentation techniques in order to achieve bas e-
line recognition rates that are comparable to those obtaine d us-
ing the state-of-the-art techniques. Next, the effect of fM LLR-
based feature normalization as well as of modeling glottal a c-
tivity parameters was studied and documented. The explored
glottal activity parameters are strength of excitation, no rmal-
ized auto-correlation peak strength, and higher-order sta tistics.
On concatenating these parameters with fMLLR-normalized
MFCC features, statistically signiﬁcant reductions in CER as
well as WER are obtained.
2833
5. References
[1] S. Watanabe, T. Hori, S. Kim, J. R. Hershey, and T. Hayashi , “Hy-
brid ctc/attention architecture for end-to-end speech rec ognition,”
IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing , vol. 11,
no. 8, pp. 1240–1253, 2017.
[2] T. N. Sainath, Y . He, A. Narayanan, R. Botros, R. Pang, D. R y-
bach, C. Allauzen, E. V ariani, J. Qin, Q.-N. Le-The, S.-Y .
Chang, B. Li, A. Gulati, J. Y u, C.-C. Chiu, D. Caseiro, W. Li,
Q. Liang, and P . Rondon, “An Efﬁcient Streaming Non-Recurrent
On-Device End-to-End Model with Improvements to Rare-Word
Modeling,” in Proc. INTERSPEECH, 2021, pp. 1777–1781.
[3] X. Chen, Y . Wu, Z. Wang, S. Liu, and J. Li, “Developing real -
time streaming transformer transducer for speech recognit ion on
large-scale dataset,” in Proc. ICASSP, 2021, pp. 5904–5908.
[4] K. Kim, K. Lee, D. Gowda, J. Park, S. Kim, S. Jin, Y .-Y . Lee,
J. Y eo, D. Kim, S. Jung et al., “Attention based on-device stream-
ing speech recognition with large speech corpus,” in Proc. ASRU,
2019, pp. 956–963.
[5] L. Y e, G. Cheng, R. Y ang, Z. Y ang, S. Tian, P . Zhang, and
Y . Y an, “Improving Recognition of Out-of-vocabulary Words in
E2E Code-switching ASR by Fusing Speech Generation Meth-
ods,” in Proc. INTERSPEECH, 2022, pp. 3163–3167.
[6] W. R. Huang, S.-Y . Chang, D. Rybach, T. Sainath, R. Prab-
havalkar, C. Peyser, Z. Lu, and C. Allauzen, “E2E Segmenter:
Joint Segmenting and Decoding for Long-Form ASR,” in Proc.
INTERSPEECH, 2022, pp. 4995–4999.
[7] L. Rumberg, H. Ehlert, U. L ¨ udtke, and J. Ostermann, “Age -
Invariant Training for End-to-End Child Speech Recognitio n Us-
ing Adversarial Multi-Task Learning,” in Proc. INTERSPEECH,
2021, pp. 3850–3854.
[8] P . G. Shivakumar and S. Narayanan, “End-to-end neural sy stems
for automatic children speech recognition: An empirical st udy,”
Computer Speech & Language, vol. 72, p. 101289, 2022.
[9] Ankita and S. Shahnawazuddin, “Developing children’s A SR sys-
tem under low-resource conditions using end-to-end architecture,”
Digital Signal Processing, vol. 146, p. 104385, 2024.
[10] Ankita, Shambhavi, and S. Shahnawazuddin, “Effect of M odel-
ing Glottal Activity Parameters on Zero-Shot Children’s AS R,”
IEEE/ACM Trans. Audio, Speech and Lang. Proc. , p. 3039–3048,
2024.
[11] R. Lu, M. Shahin, and B. Ahmed, “Improving children’s sp eech
recognition by ﬁne-tuning self-supervised adult speech re presen-
tations,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.07769, 2022.
[12] R. Jain, A. Barcovschi, M. Yiwere, P . Corcoran, and H. Cu cu,
“Adaptation of whisper models to child speech recognition, ” in
Proc. INTERSPEECH, 2023.
[13] T. Patel and O. Scharenborg, “Improving end-to-end mod els for
children’s speech recognition,” Applied Sciences, vol. 14, no. 6,
2024.
[14] K. S. R. Murty, B. Y egnanarayana, and M. A. Joseph, “Char acter-
ization of glottal activity from speech signals,” IEEE signal pro-
cessing letters, vol. 16, no. 6, pp. 469–472, 2009.
[15] E. Nemer, R. Goubran, and S. Mahmoud, “Robust voice acti vity
detection using higher-order statistics in the lpc residua l domain,”
IEEE Transactions on Speech and Audio Processing, vol. 9, no. 3,
pp. 217–231, 2001.
[16] M. Eskenazi, J. Mostow, and D. Graff, “The CMU Kids Corpu s
LDC97S63,” https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC97S63, 1997.
[17] V . Digalakis, D. Rtischev, and L. Neumeyer, “Speaker ad aptation
using constrained estimation of gaussian mixtures,” IEEE Trans-
actions on Speech and Audio Processing , pp. 357–366, 1995.
[18] K. Shobaki, J.-P . Hosom, and R. Cole, “Cslu: Kids’ speec h ver-
sion 1.1,” Linguistic Data Consortium, 2007.
[19] S. Watanabe, T. Hori, S. Karita, T. Hayashi, J. Nishitob a, Y . Unno,
N. E. Y . Soplin, J. Heymann, M. Wiesner, N. Chen et al. ,
“Espnet: End-to-end speech processing toolkit,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1804.00015, 2018.
2834
