Vocal-tract model with two directions: 
Static design for a dummy head and dynamic design for a speaking machine 
Takayuki Arai 
Sophia Univ. (Japan) 
arai@sophia.ac.jp 
 
 
Abstract 
Physical models of the human vocal tract have been developed 
for many purposes, including education in acoustics and 
phonetics, speech and language pathology, and speech 
science/technology. To cover different applicati on areas, 
variations are needed. When organizing the types of vocal-tract 
models developed for such a wide range, one of the major axes 
is static vs. dynamic aspects. In this study, we demonstrate two 
models that are the current extremities of the two dire ctions of 
this axis. The first model is an ultimate static one in which the 
vocal-tract configuration is one vowel. This model is embedded 
in a dummy head so that it can be applied to produc e exactly 
the same vowel repeatedly or for a very long duration with a 
realistic directional radiation pattern. The second model is a 
recently developed dynamic one with several blocks simulating 
articulatory movements. The cam mechanisms help to change 
the vocal-tract configurations in real time. 
Index Terms: physical models of the human vocal tract, static 
model, dummy head, dynamic model, speaking machine 
1. Introduction 
As described in [1–3], we have developed several different 
types of physical models of the human vocal tract so far. 
Because of the variations, they cover a wide range of areas and 
are utilized for many different purposes. For example, we have 
shown that straight tube models, which are a simplified version 
of the human vocal tract, have advantages for demonstrating 
acoustic theories thanks to their simplicity [3]. Bent models, 
such as the one shown in Fig. 1 [4], are also useful because the 
vocal tract is bent at about 90 degrees in the middle of its length, 
which is more realistic to the human vocal tract. Those who are 
studying speech science or phonetics can easily imagine where 
the vocal tract is located in the head with this model. 
 
 
Figure 1: Anatomical-type bent model [4]. 
 
Models like the one in Fig. 1 are static and the ir 
configuration never changes. In contrast, there is another type 
of model in which the shape changes temporally. Models of this 
latter type, which we call dynamic models, have advantages for 
showing dynamics in speech production. In the previous Show 
and Tell session in 2024, we presented a preliminary version of 
a block-type dynamic model [5]. 
Thus, the axis of static vs. dynamic aspects of vocal -tract 
models is considered to be one of the major axes. In this study, 
we introduce two of the cutting- edge extremities of the static -
dynamic axis among different types of vocal-tract models. 
2. Two types of models 
2.1. Static model embedded in a dummy head 
Figure 2 shows the dummy head used for this study, where the 
bent vocal-tract model in Fig. 1 is embedded in the dummy head. 
For the neck part, a reed -type sou nd source, SS -R30 [6], is 
connected to the hole at the bottom of the vocal tract. Because 
the vocal-tract configuration of the bent model is designed for 
vowel /a/, the dummy head in Fig. 2 also produces the same 
vowel. 
2.2. Block-type dynamic models 
Figures 3 and 4 show two of the block-type dynamic models 
utilized for this study: VTM-UT30 -D6 and VTM-UT30 -D9. 
These models are newer versions of VTM-UT45-D6, which we 
proposed in 2024 [5] . The VTM -UT30-D6/D9 models have 
smaller dimensions , with the vocal -tract len gth/width of 135 
mm/30 mm instead of 170 mm /45 mm, and the block depth of 
20 mm instead of 25 mm. The cam mechanisms set underneath 
the model are also improved and now use 3D-printed discs, so 
that we can easily switch one phrase to another. 
 
 
Figure 2: Dummy head with the bent model (right). 
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2153

 
Figure 3: VTM-UT30-D6 model with the cam 
mechanisms set underneath. 
 
 
Figure 4: VTM-UT30-D9 model with a nasal cavity 
placed on top of the main tract. 
 
3. Experiments 
3.1. Dummy head with the bent model 
One of the applications of this dummy head with the bent model 
is to produc e exactly the same vowel repeatedly or for a very 
long duration with a realistic directional radiation pattern. 
Therefore, we tested it to produce vowel /a/ for more than one 
minute, which is not possible for a human speaker. To do this , 
an air compressor was used. Figure 5 shows a spectrogram of 
the output sound from the dummy head t hat has directional 
radiation characteristics. As we can see, steady -state patterns 
were observed. Furthermore, the directional radiation patterns 
measured from this dummy head should show more realistic 
results than the ones obtained from a dummy head with an 
embedded loudspeaker. Such measurements can be utilized to 
design radiation patterns of human speakers or singers in a 
virtual-reality environment. 
3.2. VTM-UT30-D6/D9 models 
With the VTM -UT30-D6 model, different phrases can be 
produced by changing different sets of rotating discs. Figure 6 
shows spectrograms of two phrases: “How are you?” in English 
and “Arigatō” in Japanese. The advantage of the VTM-UT30-
D9 model is that it can produce not only oral but also nasal 
sounds. Figure 7 shows a spectrogram of vowel /a/ as the degree 
of nasopharyngeal coupling increased in time. A pole-zero pair 
due to nasality can be observed towards the end of the utterance. 
 
4. Acknowledgements 
This work was partially supported by JSPS KAKENHI Grant 
Number 24K06423 and Faculty of Science and Technology 
Proposal-based Research Fund, Sophia University. 
5. References 
[1] T. Arai, “Education in acoustics and speech science using vocal-
tract models,” J. Acoust. Soc. Am., vol. 131, no. 3, pp. 2444–2454, 
2012. 
[2] T. Arai, “Vocal- tract models and their applications in education 
for intuitive understanding of speech production,” Acoust. Sci. 
Technol., vol. 37, no. 4, pp. 148–156, 2016. 
[3] T. Arai, “Education in basic acoustics for acoustic phonetics and 
speech science,” J. Acoust. Soc. Am. , vol. 152, no. 5, pp. 2746–
2757, 2022. 
[4] T. Arai, “Vocal-tract model with s tatic articulators: Lips, teeth, 
tongue, and more,” Proc. INTERSPEECH, 4028–4029, 2017. 
[5] T. Arai, R. Suzuki, C. Earp, S. Tsuji, and K. Ochi, “Production of 
phrases by mechanical models of the human vocal tract,” Proc. 
INTERSPEECH, 987–988, 2024. 
[6] T. Arai, “Sound sources used in speech production research with 
physical models of the human vocal tract ,” Proc. International 
Workshop on the History of Speech Communication Research 
(HSCR), 79–84, 2019. 
 
 
Figure 5: Spectrogram of the output sound from the 
dummy head. 
 
Figure 6: Spectrograms of two phrases: “How are you?” 
in English (left) and “Arigato” in Japanese (right). 
 
Figure 7: Spectrogram of vowel /a/ with the gradually 
increasing degree of nasopharyngeal coupling. 
2154
