Structured Codebook Based Hierarchical Framework for DNN for
Computationally Efficient Speech Enhancement
Chidambar B1, D Hanumanth Rao Naidu 1
1Department of Mathematical and Computational Sciences, Sri Sathya Sai University for Human
Excellence, Karnataka, India,
chidambar.b@sssuhe.ac.in, hanumanth@sssuhe.ac.in
Abstract
Deep Neural Networks (DNN) based single-channel speech
enhancement techniques have surpassed traditional techniques
in handling non-stationary noise, however, they are computa-
tionally demanding. In this work, we introduce a novel Hi-
erarchical Framework for DNNs (HF-DNN) for speech en-
hancement that replaces a single complex and computationally
expensive DNN model with multiple simpler and less com-
plex DNNs that are hierarchically connected. This is achieved
by using structured codebooks of speech parameters, like log
power spectra, that are generated by exploiting hierarchical re-
lation between the speech training data. The proposed HF-
DNN reduces computational complexity significantly compared
to a large DNN while maintaining speech enhancement perfor-
mance. Importantly, such a framework can be extended to other
speech processing tasks, such as speech recognition, speaker
verification, etc., where parametric models of speech data are
utilized.
Index Terms: Hierarchical DNN, speech enhancement, code-
book
1. Introduction
Speech enhancement refers to the removal of noise from the
noisy speech signals to provide a cleaner speech signal. It has
applications in several fields such as mobile communication,
hearing aids, preprocessing for speech recognition, etc. Many
single-channel speech enhancement algorithms have been de-
veloped in the past few decades [1, 2]. Among these, the model-
based approaches employing trained models such as hidden
Markov models (HMM), Gaussian mixture models (GMM),
codebooks, DNNs, etc., have shown better performance in non-
stationary noise conditions by exploiting prior information of
speech and noise data. DNN model-based approaches have
gained significance recently due to their ability to capture the
nonlinear mapping between noisy and corresponding clean sig-
nals efficiently. Several DNN architectures have been used for
the purpose of single-channel speech enhancement [2].
DNN-based approaches are advantageous in terms of bet-
ter speech enhancement, however, their performance comes at
the cost of higher computational complexity [3], generally mea-
sured in terms of the number of trainable parameters of the
model. In this work, a novel Hierarchical Framework for DNNs
(HF-DNN) based on a structured codebook of clean speech data
is introduced to reduce the computational demand of DNNs.
The framework allows for the reduction of the computational
cost of DNNs while maintaining and at times even improv-
ing, the speech enhancement performance compared to a single
large DNN.
The idea of Hierarchical DNNs (HDNNs) was introduced
in [4] wherein a multilayer network structure was used. In
this structure, the top-level layers extracted coarse features
whereas the subsequent layers acted as finer classifiers. This
approach has been applied in the field of image processing to
address complex classification challenges. In [5], Koo et.al.,
developed a novel architecture for hierarchical image classifi-
cation by integrating Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs)
as feature learners with Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs)
and Sequence-to-Sequence (S2S) models. The applicability of
HDNN for image processing is mainly due to the possibility
of breaking the image analysis task into subtasks of different
complexity at multiple levels but related hierarchically. A sim-
ilar approach has not been explored in the case of input speech
data.
Noorani et. al. [6] proposed a Hierarchical DNN for speech
separation wherein the hierarchy represents different stages of
processing input data in terms of gender classification, source
separation and enhancement but not by exploiting any hierar-
chical relation in the prior speech data. The hierarchical frame-
work introduced in this paper for speech enhancement is dif-
ferent from the above mentioned approaches as it is built using
structured codebooks generated by utilising the hierarchical re-
lation of the speech training data.
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. The re-
lated background work of the structured codebook based speech
enhancement is described in Section 2. In Section 3, the pro-
posed structured codebook based Hierarchical Framework for
DNNs is described. The details and results of the experiments
performed for speech enhancement using the proposed HF-
DNN are presented in Section 4. Finally, Section 5 provides
the conclusions.
2. Related Background Work
The structured codebook of speech spectra was introduced in
[7] to reduce the computational complexity of the codebook
based speech enhancement (CBSE) methods [8]. The CBSE
methods employed trained Linear Predictive Coding (LPC)
codebooks of speech and noise data to estimate the power spec-
tral density (PSD) of the input noisy frames for the purpose of
speech enhancement. The signal model assumed was that of
additive noise. The CBSE scheme required calculations which
involved every possible pair of LPC vectors from the speech
and noise LPC codebooks. This led to a significant amount of
computation as the number of speech codebook vectors needed
to be large to represent a variety of speech spectral shapes ac-
curately. However, in [7], it was observed that only a few of
these pairs contributed significantly to the estimation of a given
observed noisy frame. To restrict computations to only relevant
speech codebook vectors for a given noisy segment, the struc-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
76 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1176

tured codebook was proposed, which imposed a tree structure
on the speech codebook, as described below.
Consider a speech LPC codebook of size 256, trained with
the Linde-Buzo-Gray (LBG) [9] algorithm using the Itakura-
Saito (IS) measure [10] as the distortion measure. Each entry in
the codebook generated is a centroid of a corresponding parti-
tion of the speech training dataset, i.e., all the training vectors
which are closest to that centroid than any other centroid are
part of the partition or cluster represented by that centroid. It
could also be observed that two LPC vectors which are part of
one cluster are likely to be closer to each other (in the IS sense)
than the vectors from other clusters. Thus, vectors from one
cluster are likely to either match or mismatch with the clean
signal part of the input noisy segment.
To build a structured codebook, the 256 centroid codebook
vectors are used as a training dataset to generate 32 new cen-
troid codebooks using the LBG algorithm again. The 256 en-
tries formed the bottom-most level (Level 0) in the structured
codebook, as shown in Figure 1. The Level 1 nodes divided the
256 vectors of Level 0 into 32 clusters and constituted the next
higher level. Extending the same procedure to the next level, 4
nodes are generated out of the 32 centroids of Level 1 and added
to the structured codebook to constitute the Level 2.
During the enhancement, the tree is traversed in a top-down
order. First, for a given input noisy frame, the Level 2 speech
LPC vectors are considered for pairing with the noise codebook
vectors to estimate the noisy PSD. For each such pair, the like-
lihood of that pair having generated the observed noisy frame is
computed using the log spectral distortion (LSD) measure as in
the CBSE method [8]. Next, the likelihood computation is re-
peated for Level 1 speech LPC vectors but only for those child
nodes at Level 1 whose parent node at Level 2 resulted in the
highest likelihood. The same procedure for likelihood compu-
tation is extended to the next lower level. The child nodes of
the highest likelihood node at the penultimate level, i.e., Level
1 in Figure 1, formed the Most Likelihood Cluster (MLC) for
the observed noisy segment. As the vectors in MLC are close
to their centroids, which is the highest likelihood node of the
penultimate level, hence, they are expected to be closer to the
clean signal part of the input noisy frame than the vectors from
the other clusters. This way, all pairs are not involved in com-
putation and only MLC vectors are considered leading to com-
putational cost reduction.
While the structured codebook results in significant com-
putational reduction, the enhancement of noisy speech is only
marginally degraded compared to the original CBSE scheme.
Further, structured codebooks of different numbers of levels and
nodes in each level can be considered for better performance.
Also, instead of selecting the child nodes of just the topmost
likelihood parent node, child nodes from the top two or more
likelihood parent nodes could also be considered at every level
of the structured codebook as a trade-off between computational
cost and speech enhancement performance.
Figure 1: Three-Tier structured codebook constructed in a
bottom-up fashion.
3. Proposed Structured Codebook Based
Hierarchical DNN Framework
In this section, we propose a hierarchical framework for DNN,
HF-DNN, using a structured codebook for speech enhancement.
The proposed framework consists of two types of DNNs: DNN
classifiers and speech enhancement DNNs (SE-DNNs). We
propose HF-DNN for input as a single frame as well for seg-
ments consisting of group of frames.
3.1. HF-DNN for Single frame input
Consider a two-tier structured codebook created from clean
speech LPS vectors. The topmost layer of this structured code-
book contains four classes, while the bottom layer encompasses
a total of 32 subclasses. For a given noisy LPS vector and
its corresponding clean LPS, the clean LPS is compared with
the nodes of the structured codebook using the minimum LSD,
which identifies the closest centroids at each codebook layer.
This comparison traces a defined path from the topmost to the
bottom layer of the structured codebook. The HF-DNN is con-
structed to mirror this trajectory for the corresponding noisy
LPS vector.
Figure 2 depicts a schematic of the HF-DNN, where train-
ing begins at the topmost level, Level 2. At this level, a DNN
classifier is trained to categorize all incoming noisy LPS vec-
tors into four classes. Each of these four classes is then further
subdivided by a second DNN classifier at Level 1, which cate-
gorizes each noisy LPS vector into one of 32 subclasses. It is
important to note that this training utilizes the structured code-
book trajectory as previously explained.
As the training process moves from higher to lower levels,
the amount of noisy data required for each subsequent DNN
classifier reduces. Consequently, the DNN classifiers within
the Hierarchical Framework at Levels 2 and 1 are simpler and
less complex than a single, comprehensive DNN designed for
speech data. At the lowest level, Level 0, the classified noisy
LPS vectors are used to train the SE-DNNs to produce clean
speech LPS vectors, as illustrated in Figure 2. These SE-DNNs
are significantly simpler and less computationally demanding
because they manage considerably less training data.
During testing, the HF-DNN processes input noisy speech
vectors starting from the top layer. Initially, the Level 2 DNN
classifier assigns an appropriate Level 1 class to the input noisy
LPS vector. This noisy LPS vector is then further classified
by the corresponding Level 1 DNN into one of the classes at
Level 0. Subsequently, at Level 0, only the relevant SE-DNN
is activated to provide the clean speech LPS estimate and not
other SE-DNNS.
Figure 2: Three-Tier Hierarchical DNN framework for speech
enhancement.
77

3.2. HF-DNN for Segment of frames as input
The codebooks generated for a parametric form of speech frame
are limited by duration of the frame to which the parametrisa-
tion is possible. For example, LPC parametrisation is permis-
sible only for frames below duration 32 ms. In order to cater
to DNNs which process segments spanning multiple frame du-
ration, the HF-DNN can be built by classifying input segments
based on distribution of number of its frames from a particular
codebook cluster. Consider, for example, a codebook with four
entries at Level 1 in Figure 2. The input segment can then be
classified based on the top codebook cluster or top two code-
book clusters out of the 4 codebook clusters, to which most of
the frames of that segment belong to.
4. Experimental Results
In this section, we present the results of the experiments that
were performed to test the performance of the proposed HF-
DNN framework for the case of input as segment of frames.
4.1. Training of Structured Codebook
An LPS structured codebook consisting of 4 codebooks entries
was created using k-means clustering applied to clean speech
data from the V oiceBank corpus [11]. The experimental training
data consisted of 11,572 clean utterances, each lasting between
5 to 7 seconds, from a total of 28 speakers. LPS vectors were
extracted from the speech files using a Hanning window of 400
samples, with a 50% overlap and a sampling frequency of 16
kHz. The structured codebook consisted of one top level of 4
nodes.
4.2. Reference DNN
In this study, the state-of-the-art SEMamba was employed as the
Reference DNN as provided in [12]. The SEMamba architec-
ture relies on the Mamba model, a state-space model designed
for efficient sequence handling. This architecture comprises a
series of convolutional layers combined with state-space blocks,
which dynamically adjust to the input data through a selective
state-space mechanism. SEMamba uses four convolutional lay-
ers to extract features from the input spectrogram. After initial
feature extraction, the architecture employs a state-space model
to process temporal dependencies and sequence dynamics ef-
fectively. This adaptability allows SEMamba to enhance speech
signals by focusing precisely on relevant audio details, optimiz-
ing noise suppression and signal clarity.
The training dataset for the Reference DNN architecture
consisted of 11,572 noisy utterances at SNRs of 0 dB, 5 dB,
10 dB, 15 dB and 20 dB. These utterances were obtained from
the V oiceBank-DEMAND dataset [13] and spanned 28 speak-
ers. The SEMamba architecture was trained over 200 epochs.
4.3. Training of DNN classifiers for HF-DNN
Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) with three fully connected lay-
ers was employed for the DNN classifiers. It comprised two
hidden layers with ReLU activations. The model uses the Adam
optimizer for training, and it concludes with two dense output
layers, each applying a softmax activation function for multi-
class classification. The classifier was trained using cross-
entropy loss. The DNN classifier is the key component of the
HF-DNN framework, with its primary role being to classify
noisy speech frames into predefined cluster labels derived from
a structured codebook. It comprised total number of 50K train-
able parameters. The training dataset for the DNN classifiers
also consisted of the same 11,572 noisy utterances, as explained
in the above subsection, and frames were extracted from these
noisy files using a Hanning window of 400 samples, with 50%
overlap and a sampling frequency of 16 kHz. The DNN classi-
fier was trained over 30 epochs.
Once all frames in a 2-second segment are classified, the
distribution of predicted labels is analyzed to determine the
dominant (primary) and second-most frequent (secondary) clus-
ter labels, as discussed in the Subsection 3.2. For every 2-
second noisy segment, the DNN classifier assigns primary and
secondary classes, resulting in 12 such classifications.
The DNN classifier was evaluated against test noisy files
using 180 clean files from a male speaker from the Wall Street
Journal (WSJ) speech data [14], which were not included in
any of the other DNNs trained for these experiments. The test-
ing phase involved adding five different challenging noise types
from the NOISEX database [15] to clean speech across seven
SNR levels, ranging from -10 dB to 20 dB with an interval of 5
dB. When the DNN classifier was tested against these test files,
the accuracy, when compared to true segment classification, was
88%.
4.4. Training of speech enhancement DNN for HF-DNN
For SE-DNN, SEMambas were utilized. They were also trained
on the same noisy utterances and SNR levels as mentioned in
Subsection 4.2. In order to train these SEMambas, the training
data segments were classified based on the top 2 codebook clus-
ters. For a 4-entry codebook, this would require 12 SE-DNNs to
be constructed, representing 12 classes of top 2 clusters. Each
of these SEMambas had around 21K trainable parameters, and
they were trained across 200 epochs as the baseline SEMamba.
4.5. Speech Enhancement Experimental Results
In order to test the proposed HF-DNN framework, only SE-
DNNs need to be tested. The same test noisy files that were
used in the DNN classifier were used. The test noisy files were
enhanced using the proposed HF-DNN, the Reference DNN,
and other state-of-the-art DNN speech enhancement algorithms,
namely MANNER [16] and MP-SENet [17]. Apart from this, a
model compression technique like Knowledge Distillation [18]
was also applied to the Reference DNN, similar to the HF-DNN
framework.
The output was evaluated using six performance metrics:
Perceptual Evaluation of Speech Quality (PESQ) [19], Short-
Term Objective Intelligibility (STOI) [20], Segmental SNR
(SSNR), Continuous Speech Intelligibility Grade (CSIG), Con-
tinuous Background Audio Knowledge (CBAK) and Continu-
ous Overall V oice Likability (COVL) [21]. Additionally, com-
putational efficiency was assessed using the number of train-
able parameters (Para.) and multiply-accumulate operations
(MACs), which serve as indicators of the feasibility of these
models for real-time or edge deployment.
The results shown in Table 1 are averages for test files
across seven SNR levels, spanning from -10 dB to 20 dB with
an interval of 5 dB. Across six metrics, the proposed HF-DNN
framework achieves a PESQ score of 2.53, surpassing MAN-
NER, while remaining similar to the scores of the Reference
DNN and MP-SENet. It can be seen that identical STOI val-
ues across HF-DNN and all competing methods suggest that
all models effectively enhance intelligibility under noisy condi-
tions. However, the proposed HF-DNN framework achieves the
best SSNR of 3.45 dB, outperforming all other algorithms.
78

Table 1: Performance Comparison of Speech Enhancement Algorithms
Method PESQ STOI SSNR CSIG CBAK COVL Para. MAC/s
Noisy 1.96 0.71 -1.98 1.14 2.14 2.39 - -
MP-SENet 2.85 0.87 2.46 3.39 2.61 2.99 2.05M 37.14G
SEMamba (Reference DNN) 2.88 0.87 2.48 3.40 2.63 3.01 2.2M 32.73G
MANNER 2.46 0.87 3.19 3.21 2.63 2.78 24.1M 7.853G
HF-DNN 2.53 0.87 3.45 3.25 2.62 2.77 71k 418M
Knowledge Distillation 2.52 0.87 2.86 3.10 2.58 2.77 21k 415M
The CSIG metric, which quantifies overall intelligibility
and speech quality by evaluating distortions introduced by the
enhancement process, shows that HF-DNN performs compet-
itively. COVL assesses the subjective preference of listeners
towards the enhanced speech, balancing between noise suppres-
sion and speech distortion. In CSIG and CBAK, the proposed
framework provides almost similar performance to the Refer-
ence DNN and MP-SENet and performs better than MANNER.
CBAK measures the level of residual noise in the enhanced
speech. Identical CBAK values across HF-DNN and all com-
peting algorithms suggest that all models are equally effective
in suppressing background noise.
With respect to Knowledge Distillation, the proposed
framework outperforms Knowledge Distillation in SSNR and
CSIG, while providing almost similar performance in other
metrics.
4.6. Reduction in Computational Cost
The HF-DNN framework demonstrates a significant reduction
in trainable parameters compared to MANNER, the Reference
DNN and MP-SENet making it a much lighter model while
maintaining competitive enhancement performance. When
compared to MANNER, which consists of 24.1 million parame-
ters, HF-DNN achieves an impressive 99.7% reduction in model
size. This means that MANNER requires nearly 340 times
more parameters than HF-DNN, showcasing the efficiency of
the structured hierarchical framework of HF-DNN. The Refer-
ence DNN used in the experiments has a significantly larger
model size, making HF-DNN a much more compact alternative
with only 71K parameters, while still delivering similar speech
enhancement performance with 96.8% reduction in trainable
parameters. Compared to MP-SENet, which has 2.05 million
trainable parameters, HF-DNN reduces the model complexity
by 96.5%.
In terms of MAC operations, HF-DNN reduces compu-
tations by 98.9% compared to MP-SENet. This means that
MP-SENet requires nearly 90 times more computational power,
making HF-DNN significantly more efficient for deployment on
edge devices and low-power environments. In comparison to
SEMamba, HF-DNN reduces the computational cost by 98.7%,
ensuring a much lower inference time while still delivering sim-
ilar speech enhancement performance. Against MANNER, the
HF-DNN framework achieves a 94.7% reduction, further em-
phasizing its computational efficiency.
The HF-DNN framework has slightly higher trainable pa-
rameters than Knowledge Distillation but almost similar MAC
operations. One advantage of the HF-DNN framework is the
flexibility in choosing DNN architectures for both DNN classi-
fiers and speech enhancement DNNs, unlike Knowledge Distil-
lation, which relies on a single DNN model for both teacher and
student models. This may facilitate applicability of proposed
model to diverse applications. It is also possible that HF-DNN
may also have an edge over single large DNNs in applications
requiring DNN adaptation.
5. Conclusions
In this work, we introduce a novel Hierarchical Framework for
DNN (HF-DNN) architectures for employing multiple simpler
DNNs to overcome the high computational cost of a single large
DNN model for speech enhancement. The proposed HF-DNN
is based on the hierarchical clustering of the structured code-
book of log power spectrum (LPS) vectors of clean speech data
to categorize a set of input noisy LPS frames or segments of
multiple frames into multi-layered classes. By identifying the
most probable class to which an input belongs, a simpler speech
enhancement DNN model can be utilized, thereby avoiding the
need for a single, complex DNN for speech enhancement.
The reduction in complexity is more than 90% compared to
the state-of-the-art reference DNNS. Moreover, this computa-
tional reduction is complemented by an improvement in speech
enhancement performance in SSNR and comparable results in
the other evaluation metrics. The HF-DNN can be utilized with
any DNN model, and it can also be applied to speech processing
tasks other than speech enhancement.
6. References
[1] P. Loizou, Speech Enhancement: Theory And Practice , 2nd ed.
CRC Press, 2013.
[2] S. Nossier, J. Wall, M. Moniri, C. Glackin, and N. Cannings, “An
Experimental Analysis of Deep Learning Architectures for Su-
pervised Speech Enhancement,” Electronics, vol. 10, no. 1, p. 17,
Dec. 2020.
[3] W. Shin, B. H. Lee, J. S. Kim, H. J. Park, and S. W. Han,
“MetricGAN-OKD: multi-metric optimization of MetricGAN via
online knowledge distillation for speech enhancement,” in Inter-
national Conference On Machine Learning . PMLR, 2023, pp.
31 521–31 538.
[4] Z. Yan, H. Zhang, R. Piramuthu, V . Jagadeesh, D. DeCoste, W. Di,
and Y . Yu, “HD-CNN: Hierarchical Deep Convolutional Neural
Networks for Large Scale Visual Recognition,” in 2015 IEEE In-
ternational Conference On Computer Vision (ICCV) , 2015, pp.
2740–2748.
[5] J. Koo, D. Klabjan, and J. Utke, “Combined Convolutional And
Recurrent Neural Networks For Hierarchical Classification Of Im-
ages,” in 2020 IEEE International Conference On Big Data (Big
Data), 2020, pp. 1354–1361.
[6] S. M. Noorani and S. Seyedin, “Single Channel Speech Source
Separation Using Hierarchical Deep Neural Networks,” in 28th
Iranian Conference On Electrical Engineering (ICEE) , Aug.
2020, pp. 1–5.
[7] D. H. Naidu, S. Srinivasan, and G. P. Rao, “Speech Enhancement
Using A Structured Codebook,” Journal of the Acoustical Society
of America, vol. 132, no. 4, pp. EL329–EL335, Oct. 2012.
[8] S. Srinivasan, J. Samuelsson, and W. Kleijn, “Codebook-based
Bayesian speech enhancement for nonstationary environments,”
79

IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing ,
vol. 14, no. 1, pp. 441–452, Jan. 2007.
[9] Y . Linde, A. Buzo, and R. Gray, “An Algorithm For Vector Quan-
tizer Design,” IEEE Transactions on Communications , vol. 28,
no. 1, pp. 84–95, Jan. 1980.
[10] R. Gray, A. Buzo, J. H.G. Augustine, and Y . Matsuyama, “Dis-
tortion Measures For Speech Processing,” IEEE Transactions on
Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing , vol. 28, pp. 367–376,
Aug. 1980.
[11] C. Veaux, J. Yamagishi, and S. King, “The V oicebank corpus: De-
sign, collection and data analysis of a large regional accent speech
database,” in 2013 International Conference Oriental COCOSDA,
2013, pp. 1–4.
[12] R. Chao, W.-H. Cheng, M. La Quatra, S. M. Siniscalchi, C.-
H. H. Yang, S.-W. Fu, and Y . Tsao, “An Investigation of In-
corporating Mamba for Speech Enhancement,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2405.06573, 2024.
[13] C. Valentini-Botinhao, X. Wang, S. Takaki, and J. Yamagishi,
“Investigating RNN-based speech enhancement methods for
noise-robust Text-to-Speech,” in Proceedings Of The 9th ISCA
Speech Synthesis Workshop (SSW) , 2016, pp. 146–152. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.21437/SSW.2016-19
[14] L. D. Consortium, “CSR-II (WSJ1) complete,” Linguistic Data
Consortium, Philadelphia, PA, 1994.
[15] A. Varga and H. Steeneken, “Assessment for Automatic Speech
Recognition: II. NOISEX-92: A Database and an Experiment to
Study the Effect of Additive Noise on Speech Recognition Sys-
tems,” Speech Communication, vol. 12, pp. 247–251, 1993.
[16] H. J. Park, B. H. Kang, W. Shin, J. S. Kim, and S. W. Han,
“MANNER: Multi-View Attention Network for Noise Erasure,”
in ICASSP 2022 - 2022 IEEE International Conference On Acous-
tics, Speech And Signal Processing (ICASSP) , 2022, pp. 7842–
7846.
[17] Y . Lu, Y . Ai, and Z. Ling, “MP-SENet: A Speech Enhancement
Model with Parallel Denoising of Magnitude and Phase Spectra,”
in Proc. INTERSPEECH, 2023, pp. 3834–3838.
[18] G. Hinton, O. Vinyals, and J. Dean, “Distilling The Knowledge In
A Neural Network,” in Proc. NIPS, 2014.
[19] ITU-T, “Perceptual evaluation of speech quality (PESQ): An
objective method for end-to-end speech quality assessment of
narrow-band telephone networks and speech codecs,” Inter-
national Telecommunication Union, Tech. Rep. P.862, 2001.
[Online]. Available: https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-P.862
[20] C. H. Taal, R. C. Hendriks, R. Heusdens, and J. Jensen, “An Algo-
rithm For Intelligibility Prediction Of Time-Frequency Weighted
Noisy Speech,” IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Lan-
guage Processing, vol. 19, pp. 2125–2136, 2011.
[21] Y . Hu and P. C. Loizou, “Evaluation Of Objective Quality Mea-
sures For Speech Enhancement,” IEEE Transactions on Audio,
Speech, and Language Processing , vol. 16, no. 1, pp. 229–238,
2008.
80
