warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Co-Speech Motion for Virtual Agents in Dialogue Using LLM-Driven
Primitive Action Selection
Muhammad Yeza Baihaqi1,2,3, Angel Garc´ıa Contreras2,1, Seiya Kawano4,2, Koichiro Yoshino3,2,1
1Nara Institute of Science and Technology, Japan; 2Guardian Robot Project, RIKEN, Japan;
3Institute of Science Tokyo, Japan; 4Kyoto Institute of Technology, Japan
muhammad yeza.baihaqi.lx2@naist.ac.jp, angel.garciacontreras@riken.jp,
seiya.kawano@riken.jp, koichiro@c.titech.ac.jp
Abstract
Non-verbal behaviors, such as co-speech motion, are essential
for making artificial agents more lifelike and engaging. How-
ever, existing approaches to generating co-speech motions still
face significant challenges. Rule-based systems, while capa-
ble of producing natural and engaging motions, struggle with
generalizability.
In contrast, the common data-driven meth-
ods can generate a wide variety of gestures but come with high
costs and require substantial adaptation to be applied to agents.
Leveraging the power of Large Language Models (LLMs) for
contextual planning and understanding, we propose an LLM-
based motion control model that uses a primitive action se-
lection strategy. This approach is expected to provide a more
flexible and scalable solution for generating contextually ap-
propriate co-speech motions across various embodied systems,
including virtual agents and robots.
Index Terms: Co-speech motion, human-agent interaction,
LLM-based motion control, primitive action selection
1. Introduction
Co-speech motion or gesture is a type of non-verbal behav-
ior that accompanies speech and enhances verbal communica-
tion through body movement. In human-to-human interaction,
it is common for individuals to perform co-speech motions to
provide appropriate social cues [1]. Similarly, incorporating
non-verbal behaviors into artificial agents can make them more
lively and engaging [2]. However, generating natural and con-
textually appropriate co-speech motions remains a challenge.
Existing approaches, such as rule-based systems, can pro-
duce natural and engaging co-speech motions but are highly
constrained. They rely on extensive hand-crafted rules, which
become increasingly difficult to maintain as complexity grows
[2]. The data-driven approaches can generate a wide range of
gestures, but motion capture technology is often costly [2, 3].
In addition, since motions are captured from humans, they re-
quire significant adaptation before being effectively applied to
different robots or virtual agents [3].
The development of Large Language Models (LLMs) has
opened new possibilities for generating co-speech motions in
human-agent interaction (HAI). Unlike rule-based systems,
where human experts manually define motion patterns, LLMs
replace these hand-crafted rules with contextual judgment. Re-
cent research have shown that LLMs demonstrate proficiency in
contextual planning, offering flexibility and an extensive knowl-
edge base across many tasks [4, 5]. These capabilities enable
LLMs to understand utterances and generate motions that com-
plement verbal cues in a more adaptive and scalable manner.
In this demonstration, we introduce an LLM-based mo-
tion control system utilizing a primitive action selection strat-
(a)
(b)
Figure 1: (a) LLM-based motion control model and (b) Motion
generation in LLM
egy. Leveraging the LLM’s ability to understand the context
and meaning of utterances, it selects primitive actions for each
body part that form gestures, which, when performed, result in
motions. Our framework guides the virtual agent ERICA in ex-
ecuting contextually appropriate co-speech motions.
2. Proposed methods
2.1. LLM-based motion control model
As shown in Figure 1a, the LLM-based motion control model
begins by receiving an utterance input from the dialogue man-
ager. The utterance is processed by the TTS system to obtain
the speech duration. This utterance and its duration are then
provided to the LLM, which generates a set of gestures, each
assigned a specific duration. The total number of generated ges-
tures gestures (Tg) are determined by the following function:
Tg =
Character Count(u)
C

(1)
where u is the utterance and C is a constant divisor. Adjusting
C controls the number of gestures: smaller C generates more
gestures, while larger C produces fewer. This allows the system
to easily adjust the level of expressivity of the motions.
The LLM determines the distribution of duration across
gestures. Some segments may be longer than others, but the
total motion duration will match the TTS speech duration, en-
suring smooth synchronization between speech and motion.
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
3533

I love visiting New York!
The city is always full of energy and excitement.
You can explore its famous landmarks, try amazing food,
and meet people from all over the world.
Time
Figure 2: Example generated motions
The generated gestures are formatted in JSON and sent to
the virtual agent via TCP/IP. In addition, the LLM utilized in
the demonstration will be GPT-4o-2024-08-06.
2.2. LLM prompt
The prompt consists of the following components:
• Context: The LLM controls the virtual agent’s motions.
• List of Actions: The LLM selects predefined primitive ac-
tions for each body part to form a complete gesture. There
are 17 actions for each arm, 5 for the head, and 3 for facial
expressions. This approach is considered more robust and
dynamic than setting primitive actions for the whole body.
Theoretically, it can generate up to 4,335 possible gestures.
• Instruction: A Chain-of-Thought (CoT) approach is used to
perform the task. First, the LLM must understand the mean-
ing of the utterance and the intended message. Next, it seg-
ments the utterance based on the total number of gestures.
Then, it assigns gestures from the list of predefined primitive
actions for each body part to each segment, including its du-
ration. Finally, it outputs the results in the designated format.
This process are illustrated in Figure 1b.
• Few-shot Example: To further guide the LLM in executing
the task, we provide a few-shot example in the prompt.
2.3. Multimodal virtual agent
In this demonstration, we employed a female virtual agent, ER-
ICA [6]. For this demo, we included modules such as Ama-
zon Polly text-to-speech (TTS)1 for converting textual output
to speech and LipSync for synchronized lip movements with
speech. The gesture and facial expression modules were also
included as part of the interface to receive the JSON-format out-
put of the LLM-based motion control model into agent actions.
The example generated motions are shown in Figure 22.
2.4. Preliminary performance testing
We conducted preliminary performance testing, evaluating pro-
cessing time and fault analysis across 20 trials. With an aver-
age internet speed of 163.4 Mbps (download) and 115.85 Mbps
(upload), the mean processing time was 1.89s (SD = 0.473).
Faults, defined as the LLM selecting non-existent primitive ac-
tions, were absent in 95% of successful system runs.
3. Show and Tell Demonstration
During the demonstration, we will showcase the performance
of our proposed method in live motion generation for co-speech
motions. In addition to our prepared utterance examples, at-
tendees may also provide sentence to be used for motion gen-
1https://aws.amazon.com/polly
2The motion video is available at youtu.be/_luMJEPRQV8
eration. Our approach highlights the model’s ability to gener-
ate appropriate co-speech motions dynamically for diverse in-
puts, without being constrained by participants’ dialogue skills
or other unintended factors.
By
allowing
attendees
to
freely
input
their
utter-
ances—whether short or long—we can effectively demonstrate
the scalability and adaptability of our method. The system dy-
namically selects primitive actions based on the input, ensuring
that motions align naturally with the speech content. This flex-
ibility would be harder to observe in a direct dialogue setting,
as participants have two focuses: one on making a dialogue and
the other on observation.
Participants will see the virtual agent animate their provided
utterances with co-speech motions, offering an interactive way
to evaluate the effectiveness of our approach. To accommodate
participants’ preferences, we provide three language options for
the agent’s speech: English, Japanese, and Dutch.
4. Conclusion
We introduced an LLM-based co-speech motion model for vir-
tual agents using primitive action selection. This approach ad-
dresses the generalizability issue of rule-based systems and the
high cost and adaptability challenges of data-driven systems.
Our demonstration highlights the system’s ability to handle di-
verse utterances while supporting multiple languages. Prelimi-
nary testing shows that the model operates within a reasonable
processing time. This work represents a promising step toward
more natural and efficient co-speech motion in HAI.
5. Acknowledgements
This work was supported by JST Moonshot Project Grant
Number JPMJMS2236 and JSPS KAKENHI Grant Numbers
23K19984 and 22K17958.
6. References
[1] S. Whittaker, “Theories and methods in mediated communication,”
in Handbook of Discourse Processes.
Routledge, 2003.
[2] S. Nyatsanga et al., “A comprehensive review of data-driven co-
speech gesture generation,” Computer Graphics Forum, vol. 42,
no. 2, p. 569–596, May 2023.
[3] J. Tolins et al., “A multimodal motion-captured corpus of matched
and mismatched extravert-introvert conversational pairs,” in Pro-
ceedings of the LREC, May 2016, pp. 3469–3476.
[4] H. Liu et al., “Enhancing the LLM-based robot manipulation
through human-robot collaboration,” IEEE RA-L, vol. 9, no. 8, p.
6904–6911, Aug. 2024.
[5] J. Sun et al., “Prompt, plan, perform: Llm-based humanoid control
via quantized imitation learning,” in ICRA, May 2024, pp. 16 236–
16 242.
[6] R. Higashinaka et al., Dialogue System Live Competition: Identi-
fying Problems with Dialogue Systems Through Live Event.
Sin-
gapore: Springer Singapore, Mar. 2021, pp. 185–199.
3534

