Finding the Human V oice in AI: Insights on the Perception of AI-V oice Clones
from Naturalness and Similarity Ratings
Linda Bakkouche†1, Charles McGhee 1, Emily Lau 1, Stephanie Cooper 1, Xinbing Luo 1, Madeleine
Rees1, Kai Alter 2, Brechtje Post1, Julia Schwarz†1
1University of Cambridge, United Kingdom
2Newcastle University, United Kingdom
lb983@cam.ac.uk†,julia.schwarz.ac@gmail.com†
Abstract
AI-generated voice clones are important tools in language
learning, audiobooks, and assistive technology, but often strug-
gle to replicate key prosodic features such as dynamic F0 vari-
ation. The impact of these differences on speech perception
remain underexplored. To address this, we conducted two be-
havioural tasks, evaluating listeners’ ratings of naturalness and
similarity for human speech, three AI voice clones (Eleven-
Labs, StyleTTS-2, XTTS-v2), and a 30% F0 variation condi-
tion. ElevenLabs was rated comparably to human speech, while
StyleTTS-2 and XTTS-v2 received lower ratings. Reduced F0
variation also led to lower ratings, suggesting that prosody is
key to perceived naturalness and similarity. Listener ratings
were further influenced by speaker accent and sex, but not by
AI tool experience. These findings suggest that prosodic fea-
tures and speaker-specific characteristics could be drivers for
the varying performance of AI-voice clones.
Index Terms: Speech Perception, Speech Synthesis, Human-
Computer Interaction, Prosody
1. Introduction
1.1. Background
Artificial intelligence (AI) voice cloning technology has ad-
vanced significantly, creating synthetic voices that closely
mimic human speech. This progress has driven diverse appli-
cations, including personalized language instruction with real-
time feedback [1], audiobooks with efficient narration [2], and
assistive technologies for individuals with speech impairments,
such as the NAO Robot in speech therapy [3].
A major challenge in AI speech synthesis is reproducing
prosody, i.e. variations in pitch, stress, and rhythm. Kulan-
gareth and colleagues [4] demonstrated that listeners can reli-
ably distinguish AI-generated voices from human ones when
prosodic irregularities, such as unnatural speech shifts or dis-
rupted timing, are combined with pauses that break the natural
flow of speech. Fundamental frequency ( F0) variation could
have an additional effect on perceived naturalness in AI speech:
F0 variation plays a pivotal role in speech, governing pitch mod-
ulation and shaping the expressiveness, emotional depth, and
communicative intent of spoken language [5]. Indeed, insuffi-
cient F0 variation may result in mechanical-sounding speech,
rated as less natural by listeners and affecting intelligibility
[6, 7]. Despite efforts to improve prosodic control [7, 8], many
current AI systems still produce speech with flat intonation and
limited dynamic expression, indicating unresolved challenges
in replicating natural prosody [5]. Previous studies have fo-
cused on individual systems without comparing performance
across multiple AI models and without controlled prosodic ma-
nipulations. This narrow focus limits our understanding of how
different AI voice clones perform in comparison to one another
and in comparison to fully natural speech with less engaging
prosody. Additionally, it remains unclear whether judgments
of speaker similarity and naturalness to human voices are in-
fluenced by factors such as speaker accent or sex, as well as
listeners’ AI experience, as frequent interaction with AI tools
may shape sensitivity to subtle acoustic differences.
1.2. The current study
In the present study, we address how listeners perceive three
state-of-the-art AI voice clones, focusing on the influence of key
prosodic features on perceived naturalness and speaker similar-
ity. Specifically, we aim to answer the following questions:
1. How do listeners perceive the naturalness and similarity of
AI-generated voices compared to human speech?
2. How does variation in fundamental frequency (F0) contribute
to the perception of naturalness and similarity?
We selected MUSHRA tests (Multiple Stimuli with Hidden
Reference and Anchor) as the primary evaluation method, given
their effectiveness in capturing fine-grained perceptual differ-
ences [9]. Participants were presented with speech samples and
asked to rate each on a scale of 0 (low) to 100 (high). The in-
clusion of a Hidden Reference (here: Natural Human Speech)
and an Anchor ensures that ratings reflect relative differences
in perceived quality across conditions, and encourages partici-
pants to rank stimuli based on nuanced perceptual cues, which
may be missed in simpler rating systems like Mean Opinion
Scores (MOS).
We conducted two MUSHRA tasks: one assessing Natural-
ness (Exp. 1) and the other Similarity to a reference speaker
(Exp. 2). Test stimuli included natural human speech (Hid-
den Reference), three state-of-the-art AI voice-clone models
(ElevenLabs1, StyleTTS-2, XTTS-v2) [10, 11], a controlled
prosodic manipulation retaining 30% of the F0 variation from
the natural sample, and a noise-vocoded control (Anchor). In-
cluding three AI voice clones allowed us to compare per-
formance between commercial (ElevenLabs) and open source
models (Style TTS, XTTS-v2), and to distill broader trends in
AI voice synthesis (Question 1). Including a controlled 30%F0
condition allowed us to explore the role of dynamic pitch mod-
ulation in a controlled manner (Question 2). We hypothesized
that both AI voice clones and reduced F0 variability would re-
ceive lower ratings of Naturalness and Similarity compared to
human speech, and that these effects might be further modulated
by speaker accent and listeners’ prior exposure to AI tools.
1https://elevenlabs.io/
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2190 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-947

2. Methodology
2.1. Participants
Participants (N = 66) were recruited and compensated through
Prolific, and no participants took part in both tasks. Participants
who failed to give the Anchor a score of 0 in more than 33%
of trials, and participants who assigned 0 to conditions other
than the Anchor in more than 33% were removed (Exp. 1: N
= 2; Exp. 2: N = 9). The remaining participants were native
speakers of British English without language, leaning or hear-
ing impairments, retaining 28 subjects in the Naturalness task
(f = 18; Mean Age = 30.32, SD = 7.54), and 27 subjects in the
Similarity task (f = 13; Mean Age = 30.19, SD = 7.04).
2.2. Stimuli and conditions
The stimuli were three-second samples of speech, categorized
into six conditions: Natural human speech produced by three
different speakers (two female and one male); three AI-voice
clones based on the natural voices ( ElevenLabs, Style TTS,
XTTS-V2); a controlled prosodic manipulation retaining 30%
F0 variation of the natural voices; and a control condition that
was designed to be the most unnatural / dissimilar condition
(Anchor).
The AI-voice clone models were chosen to capture a range
of commercial (ElevenLabs) and open source tools (StyleTTS-
2, XTTS-v2) as well as different architectures (LLM-based =
ElevenLabs, XTTS-v2; Diffusion-based = StyleTTS-2). All
voice clones were high-scoring models on Huggingface’s TTS
Arena2 at the time of testing (10/2024), which indicated that
they were among the best performing TTS models available.
The Natural Human Speech recordings consisted of 1-2 sen-
tence long sections of novel children’s stories, recorded by two
Standard Southern British English (SSBE) speakers (one male,
one female) and one female General American (GA) English
speaker. Each voice cloning model was conditioned on a 15-
second sample of these three speakers, the content of which was
not included in any of the listening tests. The default settings
for voice cloning from each model’s API or Github page were
used to synthesize all the test utterances, reflecting the likely
use of these models for educational content generation. The
30%F0 variation condition was included to examine the role of
dynamic prosody in the perception of naturalness and similar-
ity. To create this condition, the pitch contours of natural speech
were manipulated using the Praat plug-in V ocal Toolkit3 to sys-
tematically reduce F0 variation to 30% of the original sample,
without altering other prosodic features like duration or inten-
sity. This condition served as an intermediary step, providing
insights into how reduced prosodic variability affects perceived
naturalness and similarity to human voices. For the Naturalness
task (Exp. 1.), the Anchor was produced with a diphone synthe-
sizer4 to create a prosodically unnatural rendition of the human
voice, passed through a TanH distortion filter 5, and finally low
pass filtered with a cut-off at 500 Hz. Whilst there cannot be
an explicit definition of unnatural speech, this method produced
speech which was easily recognised as the anchor by the major-
ity of participants (cf. Section 2.1 Participants ). For the Sim-
ilarity task (Exp. 2), the Anchor was a recording of the same
2https://huggingface.co/spaces/TTS-AGI/
TTS-Arena
3http://www.praatvocaltoolkit.com
4https://github.com/tomasgoiba/
diphone-synthesizer
5https://github.com/iver56/audiomentations
lexical content by one of the other speakers from our record-
ings.
2.3. Experiment procedure
The experiments were conducted online with Gorilla Experi-
ment Builder [12] and each took 25-35 minutes to complete.
Participants were administered, in order: a demographic ques-
tionnaire; one of the two listening tasks (Exp. 1: Naturalness
task, Exp. 2: Similarity task); a questionnaire about their use of
AI-voice tools; and a post-experiment feedback questionnaire,
which asked participants to rate the difficulty of the task and
their own concentration during the experiment.
After participants were familiarized with an example, they
completed 21 trials in each task. Each trial presented the six
conditions in randomized order. In Experiment 1 (Natural-
ness), participants were asked to judge how natural each sample
sounded on a scale of 0 (completely unnatural) to 100 (com-
pletely natural). Participants were also given the instruction to
give the Hidden Reference a maximum rating and the Anchor
a minimum rating. In Experiment 2 (Similarity), participants
were asked to judge how similar each sample sounded on a scale
of 0 (definitely a different speaker) to 100 (definitely the same
speaker), compared to a reference speaker of the same voice
producing a different sentence.
2.4. Data analysis
Listeners’ previous exposure to AI-generated voices may have
had an impact on their perception of the voice clones pre-
sented in the current experiment. AI exposure was therefore
collected in a questionnaire administered to all participants, and
frequency of AI use was included in our analyses of Naturalness
and Similarity Ratings. Data from the questionnaire on partic-
ipants’ self-reported use of AI voice assistants are summarised
in Section 3.1.
Data from the Naturalness and Similarity tests were ana-
lyzed separately in R (Version 4.2.1) following the same pro-
cedures. First, data were averaged over subjects and an-
alyzed with Friedman tests to determine significant differ-
ences between conditions, as recommended for MUSHRA tests
[13]. Secondly, to test for potential differences between the
three different speakers in the voice samples (Male British,
Female British, Female American) and a potential influence
of participants’ self-reported AI usage (No Usage, Medium,
High) on judgments, we removed the Anchor condition, scaled
the data between 0-1, and applied an Arcsine transformation
to reduce the mid-point skew. We then conducted a lin-
ear mixed-effects model with the lme4 package [14] on the
normally distributed data, including the three-way interaction
Condition*Speaker*AI-Use as fixed effects and Subject as ran-
dom intercept. We also included Speaker as random slope
since we hypothesized that speaker differences could be a likely
source of variability. The model was then optimized with AIC
comparison. Variables were sum-to-zero contrast coded. Post-
hoc pairwise comparisons are presented with Bonferroni cor-
rections. All data and analysis scripts are available on OSF6.
3. Results
3.1. Questionnaire on AI use
Listeners’ previous exposure to AI-generated voices was col-
lected in a questionnaire administered to all participants, and
6https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/WF3HA
2191

frequency of AI use was included in our analyses of Natural-
ness and Similarity Ratings. The questionnaire was designed to
assess participants’ overall AI tool usage, aligning with our aim
of examining whether prior AI experience influences voice per-
ception. Participants were categorized into three groups based
on their frequency of use: Low (never, monthly), Moderate
(weekly, several times a week), and High (daily, several times a
day). Interestingly, AI engagement patterns varied across these
groups, with lower-frequency users displaying broader usage
across different AI tools, while higher-frequency users exhib-
ited more concentrated usage (Figure 1). A large proportion
of low-frequency users reported engagement with a variety of
tools, indicating a diverse, but less intensive, interaction with
AI technologies. Moderate and high-frequency users showed
distinct engagement patterns, with a relatively larger propor-
tion using entertainment tools and virtual assistants compared to
other applications (as well as communication tools in the high-
frequency group). Notably, education-related AI tool usage was
consistently the least utilized category across all levels of AI
usage frequency. These patterns suggest that engagement with
different AI tools may become more specialised with increasing
overall use.
Figure 1: Participants % reporting engagement with different
AI tools across different levels of overall AI-usage frequency.
3.2. Exp. 1: Naturalness task
In Experiment 1, listeners rated the naturalness of human and
AI-voice cloned speech samples on a scale of 0-100. A Fried-
man test showed a significant effect of Condition on Naturalness
ratings (χ2(5) = 131 .08,p < .001), with a large effect size
(Kendall’sW = .94; Figure 2, left panel). Post-hoc pairwise
Wilcoxon tests with Bonferroni correction revealed that all con-
ditions differed significantly from one another except the Hu-
man voice and ElevenLabs conditions (W = 101,p = .312),
and the XTTS-V2 and 30% F0 conditions (W = 221 ,p =
1.000). This suggests that ElevenLabs was the only voice-clone
model that achieved human speech-like performance.
Next, a linear mixed model was built with the three-way
interaction Condition*Speaker*AI-Use to investigate effects of
Speaker V oice and AI Usage. AI-Use did not significantly con-
tribute to the model and was removed. The resulting model
showed significant effects of Condition ( F(4, 378) = 254.93,
p<. 001,η2 =.73) and Speaker (F(2, 378) = 20.93,p<. 001,
η2 = .10), as well as a significant interaction between them
(F(8, 378) = 5.55, p < .001, η2 = .11). Post-hoc compar-
isons of the interaction (with Bonferroni correction; emmeans
package) showed two patterns of significant differences. In the
Human natural, Human 30% F0, and ElevenLabs conditions,
Male British (MB) and Female British (FB) speakers were rated
as significantly more natural than the Female American (FA)
speaker (ps < .05), suggesting an effect of accent in these
conditions. Secondly, in the 30% F0 condition, MB also sig-
nificantly differed from FB, with MB being rated more natural
compared to FB, indicating an additional effect of speaker dif-
ferences, possibly driven by the speaker sex.
3.3. Exp. 2: Similarity task
In Experiment 2, listeners rated the similarity of human and AI-
voice cloned speech samples compared to a reference speaker
on a scale of 0-100. We also found a significant effect of
Condition on Similarity ratings (χ2(5) = 117 .05,p < .001),
with a large effect size (Kendall’s W = .87; Figure 2, right
panel). Post-hoc comparisons with Bonferroni correction re-
vealed that all conditions differed significantly from one an-
other except the Natural Human voice and ElevenLabs condi-
tions (W = 300,p = .097), the StyleTTS and 30% F0 condi-
tions (W = 185,p = 1.000), and the XTTS-V2 and 30% F0
conditions (W = 71,p =.053). This suggests that ElevenLabs
was again the only voice clone that achieved human speech-like
performance in terms of similarity to an original speaker.
A linear mixed model investigated potential effects of
Speaker V oice and AI Usage. AI-Use did not significantly con-
tribute to the model and was removed. The resulting model
showed significant effects of Condition ( F(4, 364) = 193.35,
p < .001,η2 = .68), a non-significant effect of Speaker ( F(2,
364) = 2.45,p =.087,η2 =.01), and a significant interaction
between Condition and Speaker ( F(8, 364) = 28.91, p < .001,
η2 = .39). Post-hoc comparisons of the interaction showed
that all contrasts with the Female American (FA) speaker were
significant (ps < .01). For the Natural Human, ElevenLabs,
and 30%F0 samples, similarity ratings were higher on average
for British speakers compared to the American speaker. Con-
versely, for the StyleTTS and XTTS-V2 samples, similarity rat-
ings were lower for British speakers compared to the Ameri-
can speaker. In addition, only in the 30% F0 condition, British
speakers (MB-FB) also differed significantly from one another
(t(364) = 3.65,p < .001), with MB being rated more similar
to the reference speaker compared to FB, thus showing a similar
pattern as in the Naturalness task. Listeners’ accent experience,
as well as differences in the underlying training data of the dif-
ferent AI-voice clone models, likely contributed to this pattern
of results.
4. Discussion
Despite advances in AI voice cloning, replicating natural human
speech remains challenging. However, research on listeners’
perception of AI-voice clones remains sparse and has predom-
inantly focused on assessing individual voice clone models in
isolation [15, 16], limiting broader insights into AI perception.
Our study addressed these gaps with two MUSHRA tasks in
which we compared three state-of-the-art AI models (Eleven-
Labs, StyleTTS-2, XTTS-v2) to fully Natural Human Speech
and to a less prosodically expressive, but also natural 30% F0
condition, to garner insights into the role ofF0 variation.
Among the tested models, ElevenLabs was the only
one rated comparably to human speech in both tasks, while
StyleTTS-2 and XTTS-V2 were rated less natural and simi-
lar compared to the original speaker, consistent with studies
showing AI struggles to replicate human voice variability [17].
Interestingly, reducing F0 variation to 30% also significantly
affected ratings in both tasks, with comparatively similar rat-
ings to the lower performing StyleTTS-2 and XTTS-V2 mod-
2192

Figure 2: Listener Ratings of Naturalness (Exp. 1) and Similarity (Exp. 2).
els. While a causal claim cannot be made, this pattern of results
suggests a potential role of natural F0 contours on the authen-
ticity of AI speech. Indeed, research shows that listeners are
highly sensitive to prosodic cues, effortlessly detecting even mi-
nor discrepancies that can undermine the perceived authenticity
of speech [15]. Although beyond the scope of the current pa-
per, the results prompt a detailed prosodic-phonetic analysis of
AI-voice clones as the next step in this research, with likely dif-
ferences inF0 contours.
Our results revealed further effects of speaker accent on lis-
teners’ judgments: for Natural Human, ElevenLabs, and 30%
F0 samples, British-accented speakers received higher simi-
larity ratings than the American-accented speaker. Given that
all our participants were British English speakers, this finding
suggests that accent familiarity influenced judgments, consis-
tent with judgments of natural speech [18]. Conversely, British
speakers received lower ratings than the American speakers for
the StyleTTS-2 and XTTS-V2 samples in the Similarity task.
This was likely due to differences in training data: StyleTTS-
2 is primarily trained on the LibriTTS dataset, which features
predominantly American-accented speakers [10], and XTTS-
v2 is trained on cross-lingual datasets with limited attention to
British-accented prosody [11]. This may have affected the ac-
curate replication of specific acoustic and prosodic features of
British English, therefore affecting the Similarity to a British
voice, but not the overall Naturalness. ElevenLabs’ flexibility
and exposure to diverse datasets likely contributed to its su-
perior handling of acoustic and prosodic nuances. Addition-
ally, speaker sex appeared to influence listener judgments, with
the male British speaker consistently receiving higher similar-
ity ratings. This discrepancy may stem from the greater pitch
variability in female voices compared to male ones [19], which
can make precise voice matching more challenging. To im-
prove generalization across different voices and enhance syn-
thesis quality, models should be trained on properly curated,
diverse datasets, as proposed by Luong and colleagues [20].
Our analysis of the AI usage questionnaire (Figure 1) re-
vealed distinct engagement patterns: low-frequency AI users
interacted with a broad array of tools, whereas high-frequency
users focused on a narrower set of applications. However, this
disparity in AI experience did not translate into differences in
perceptual ratings – AI use frequency had no significant influ-
ence on listeners’ naturalness or similarity judgments. This
finding suggests that even participants who regularly use AI
voice tools were just as discerning in their evaluations as those
with little exposure, indicating that perceptual judgments were
driven predominantly by the acoustic characteristics of the stim-
uli rather than by familiarity with the technology.
One limitation of our study is the short duration ( ∼ 12s)
of the speech stimuli, which may not capture longer-range
prosodic patterns. The relatively short sample length lim-
its the analysis of broader prosodic dynamics such as phrasal
intonation or boundary tones. Nonetheless, the comparison
of prosodic implementation across synthesis systems remains
valuable, and we plan to pursue extended phonetic analyses in
future work.
5. Conclusions
This study revealed significant differences in human perception
of current state-of-the-art voice clones: While ElevenLabs was
rated comparably to human speech in both naturalness and sim-
ilarity, StyleTTS-2 and XTTS-v2 received significantly lower
ratings. Notably, a 30% F0 variation condition also led to low
ratings, suggesting that dynamic prosody significantly impacts
listeners’ judgments. Finally, speaker accent and sex had addi-
tional effects on listener ratings, likely related to raters’ linguis-
tic backgrounds and limitations of AI speech technology. Taken
together, the current results provide behavioural evidence that
prosodic features and accent-specific characteristics affect hu-
man judgments of speech. This could be a potential driver for
the varying performance of AI-voice clones. Although beyond
the scope of the current paper, these results spark further re-
search into the phonetic-prosodic characteristics of AI speech,
such as detailed phonetic analyses onF0 variation, pitch range,
speech rate, and intensity. Identifying which of these features
contribute most to perceived differences between AI and human
speech will help to explain why some AI-generated voices are
perceived as less human.
6. Acknowledgements
The authors would like to thank the Cambridge Language Sci-
ences Incubator Fund for funding this research, and the anony-
mous reviewers for their comments and suggestions.
2193

7. References
[1] B. Zou, H. Reinders, M. Thomas, and D. Barr, “Editorial: Using
artificial intelligence technology for language learning,”Frontiers
in Psychology, vol. 14, pp. 1664–1078, 2023.
[2] J. R. Rachels and A. J. Rockinson-Szapkiw, “The effects of a mo-
bile gamification app on elementary students’ Spanish achieve-
ment and self-efficacy,” Computer Assisted Language Learning ,
vol. 31, no. 1-2, pp. 72–89, 2018.
[3] G. Georgieva-Tsaneva, A. Andreeva, P. Tsvetkova, A. Lekova,
M. Simonska, V . Stancheva-Popkostadinova, G. Dimitrov,
K. Rasheva-Yordanova, and I. Kostadinova, “Exploring the po-
tential of social robots for speech and language therapy: a review
and analysis of interactive scenarios,” Machines, vol. 11, no. 7,
2023.
[4] N. V . Kulangareth, J. Kaufman, J. Oreskovic, and Y . Fossat, “In-
vestigation of deepfake voice detection using speech pause pat-
terns: Algorithm development and validation,” JMIR Biomedical
Engineering, vol. 9, 2024.
[5] J. Kane, M. N. Johnstone, and P. Szewczyk, “V oice synthesis
improvement by machine learning of natural prosody,” Sensors,
vol. 24, no. 5, 2024.
[6] L. M. Slowiaczek and H. C. Nusbaum, “Effects of speech rate
and pitch contour on the perception of synthetic speech,” Human
Factors, vol. 27, no. 6, pp. 701–712, 1985.
[7] J. Yamagishi and T. Kobayashi, “Average-voice-based speech
synthesis using HSMM-based speaker adaptation and adaptive
training,” IEICE TRANSACTIONS on Information and Systems ,
vol. 90, no. 2, pp. 533–543, 2007.
[8] J. M. V ojtech, J. P. Noordzij Jr, G. J. Cler, and C. E. Stepp,
“The effects of modulating fundamental frequency and speech
rate on the intelligibility, communication efficiency, and perceived
naturalness of synthetic speech,” American Journal of Speech-
Language Pathology, vol. 28, no. 2S, pp. 875–886, 2019.
[9] B. Series, “Method for the subjective assessment of intermediate
quality level of audio systems,” International Telecommunication
Union Radiocommunication Assembly, vol. 2, 2014.
[10] Y . A. Li, C. Han, V . Raghavan, G. Mischler, and N. Mesgarani,
“StyleTTS 2: Towards human-level text-to-speech through style
diffusion and adversarial training with large speech language
models,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems ,
vol. 36, pp. 19 594–19 621, 2023.
[11] E. Casanova, K. Davis, E. G ¨olge, G. G ¨oknar, I. Gulea, L. Hart,
A. Aljafari, J. Meyer, R. Morais, S. Olayemi, and J. Weber,
“XTTS: a massively multilingual zero-shot text-to-speech model,”
in Interspeech 2024, 2024, pp. 4978–4982.
[12] A. L. Anwyl-Irvine, J. Massonni ´e, A. Flitton, N. Kirkham, and
J. K. Evershed, “Gorilla in our midst: An online behavioral exper-
iment builder,”Behavior Research Methods, vol. 52, pp. 388–407,
2020.
[13] C. Mendonc ¸a and S. Delikaris-Manias, “Statistical tests with
MUSHRA data,” in Audio Engineering Society Convention 144 .
Audio Engineering Society, 2018.
[14] D. Bates, M. M ¨achler, B. Bolker, and S. Walker, “Fitting linear
mixed-effects models using lme4,”Journal of Statistical Software,
vol. 67, no. 1, pp. 1–48, 2015.
[15] C. Roswandowitz, T. Kathiresan, E. Pellegrino, V . Dellwo, and
S. Fr ¨uhholz, “Cortical-striatal brain network distinguishes deep-
fake from real speaker identity,”Communications Biology, vol. 7,
no. 1, 2024.
[16] C. Edwards, A. Edwards, B. Stoll, X. Lin, and N. Massey, “Eval-
uations of an artificial intelligence instructor’s voice: Social Iden-
tity Theory in human-robot interactions,” Computers in Human
Behavior, vol. 90, pp. 357–362, 2019.
[17] Z. Hodari, C. Lai, and S. King, “Perception of prosodic variation
for speech synthesis using an unsupervised discrete representation
of F0,” in Proceedings of Speech Prosody 2020 , 2020, pp. 965–
969.
[18] S. Njie, N. Lavan, and C. McGettigan, “Talker and accent famil-
iarity yield advantages for voice identity perception: A voice sort-
ing study,” Mem Cogn, vol. 51, no. 1, pp. 175–187, Jan. 2023.
[19] A. P. Simpson, “Phonetic differences between male and female
speech,” Language and Linguistics Compass , vol. 3, no. 2, pp.
621–640, 2009.
[20] H.-T. Luong, X. Wang, J. Yamagishi, and N. Nishizawa, “Train-
ing multi-speaker neural text-to-speech systems using speaker-
imbalanced speech corpora,” in Interspeech 2019. International
Speech Communication Association, 2019, pp. 1303–1307.
2194
