SMARTMOS: Modeling Subjective Audio Quality Evaluation for Real-Time
Applications
Sivakumar Balasubramanian1, Jose Antonio Jimenez Amador1, Kaustubh Kalgaonkar1, King Wei
Hor1, Sriram Srinivasan1
1Meta Platforms, Inc., USA,
{sivabala, josejia, kaustubhk, kingwei, sriramsri }@meta.com
Abstract
Evaluating audio quality is a crucial task, with subjective
listening tests being the gold standard. However, these tests are
time-consuming intrusive and expensive, making them imprac-
tical for real-time applications like telecommunications. De-
spite efforts to develop automatic methods that match human
listener fidelity, current approaches have limitations that hinder
their use in real-world scenarios.
In this paper, we introduce SMARTMOS, a novel approach
that addresses some of these gaps and enables accurate, real-
time, non-intrusive, privacy aware audio quality assessment.
We demonstrate the effectiveness of SMARTMOS through a
case study on Noise Suppression (NS) and Packet Loss Con-
cealment (PLC) modules. Furthermore, we show how semi-
supervised learning techniques can be leveraged to build a joint
MOS model that seamlessly covers both PLC and NS scenarios.
Index Terms : perceived audio quality, noise suppression,
packet loss concealment, on-device models
1. Introduction
Measurement of quality is a very important step in developing
any audio processing system, algorithms or modules. The met-
ric to measure perceived audio quality can differ based on the
focus of audio processing modules (APM). For a noise suppres-
sion system, one may be interested in measuring presence of
residual noise and speech degradation due to aggressive NS,
while for Packet Loss Concealment or Acoustic Echo Cancel-
lation (AEC), one may want to assess the quality impact in the
presence of artifacts and distortions to human speech. The ques-
tion and design of the evaluation process are tailored to cater to
these specific needs and hence, subjective tests usually yield the
most accurate insights into the performance of the systems.
Objective evaluations such as PESQ [1], POLQA [2], and
VISQOL [3] use a reference audio (typically referred to as in-
trusive technique) and aim to provide quality scores using hand-
crafted features and metrics. These methods are easily scalable
in certain scenarios, such as offline tests where clean references
are available or can be synthetically generated. However, they
are not suitable for scenarios without clean references, whether
online, offline, or in product deployments. Subjective evalua-
tions involve human labeling of processed audio, typically on a
scale of 1-5 (1 being worst and 5 being best), to obtain opinion
scores. This process is conducted either in a controlled environ-
ment or through crowd sourcing, following ITU-T recommen-
dations [4, 5, 6]. To ensure reliability, ratings from multiple
raters are obtained for each audio sample and statistically ag-
gregated to obtain the mean opinion score (MOS). While sub-
jective scores are considered the gold standard for audio quality
assessment, obtaining them can be expensive and not scalable
for real-time scenarios.
Measuring audio quality in real-time applications, such as
telecommunication, requires on-device predictions without the
need for a reference signal. This is because these applications
involve multiple APMs, and assessing audio quality at differ-
ent points after each APM is crucial. Therefore, the algorithms
used must be low-footprint (low on memory, latency and com-
putation) and not interfere with the primary application. To ad-
dress this challenge, ML-based techniques have been employed
to model the subjective MOS without relying on a reference sig-
nal.
Self-supervised techniques [7, 8] aim to enhance the gen-
erality of model predictions using architectures like Wav2Vec
[9] and HuBERT [10], and fine-tune the model for MOS pre-
dictions. However, these models have high computational and
memory requirements, making on-device deployment challeng-
ing. SESQA [11] and MOSRA [12] provide overall audio qual-
ity using semi-supervised learning/Teacher-Student approaches
for unlabelled data, but do not offer scores for artifacts related
to specific APMs. Models such as [13, 14, 15, 16, 17] pro-
vide quality measurement for specific audio processing tasks,
but using them require multiple models in the telecommunica-
tion pipeline. Models such as [18, 19, 20] predict audio quality
from human ratings for various artifacts across audio process-
ing type and provide ratings for multiple perceptual quality di-
mensions and overall quality. However, this requires obtaining
human labels for every audio in the dataset along all the quality
dimensions.
In this work, we present a single low-footprint on-device
model that predicts human subjective ratings for NS and PLC
APMs using semi-supervised training techniques. Unlike [18,
20], our model provides specific scores for each APM, with
datasets collected separately and labeled specifically for each
module. While we train models specifically per APM, we aim
for generalisability within rating these APM modules. While
the subjective nature of the task limits our ability to use other
test sets and quality prediction models for direct comparisons,
we provide real-world rating scenarios (Figure 4) that demon-
strate the generalisability. We provide details on developing the
joint model and compare its performance to standalone PLC and
NS models. Additionally, we discuss techniques used to deploy
this model on-device without CPU overloads using streaming
inference and a state machine based sampling technique.
2. Dataset
A labeled dataset is one of the most important components for
development of SMARTMOS. Our data collection/labeling pro-
cess is designed with two major requirements: 1) To guarantee
that the scores obtained across various sessions and raters are
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
3165 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2198

comparable and normalized. This process control ensures that
models trained using our dataset are capturing the quality scores
and not just the variability/noise in the scoring process. 2) Max-
imize the diversity in the processing, scenarios and locales.
To ensure consistency and accuracy in their ratings, the
raters were provided with a set of golden audio clips rated by
experts that served as reference points for S, N, and O MOS tar-
gets. These golden clips were used to calibrate the raters at the
start of each session, helping them to establish a common un-
derstanding of the desired quality standards. In addition to the
calibration exercise, each evaluation set of 15 audio clips in-
cluded up to 2 golden reference clips, which were randomly in-
serted among the other clips. However, these golden references
were not explicitly identified as such to the raters, allowing us
to assess their ability to consistently rate the clips without bias.
If the raters failed to accurately score these golden references,
the entire evaluation set was discarded to maintain the integrity
of the rating process.
We built an in-house dataset to assess audio quality in var-
ious scenarios, including NS, AEC, and PLC. In this paper, we
focus on a subset of the dataset that features speech audio clips
with a single primary speaker. Other special scenarios, such
as multiple speakers or equalization, is not the primary focus of
this work. The overall collection comprises approximately 400k
labelled audio clips, spanning eleven languages. For the NS re-
lated dataset we included audios with different noise types and
levels processed by several in-house and third party NS algo-
rithms. We also included unprocessed noisy data to get scores
in different ranges. Similarly, for PLC dataset, we included au-
dios with different packet loss rates processed by different PLC
algorithms. Each utterance is typically 10 seconds long and is
evaluated by multiple trained raters (ten per clip). During a ses-
sion, raters are presented with only one task (e.g., either NS or
PLC). To prevent listener fatigue, a limit is placed on the num-
ber of sessions that could be assigned to each rater.
For the dataset related to noise suppression APM, we aim
to capture not only the overall audio quality but also the quality
of the main speaker and the impact of noise. To achieve this, we
design questions that specifically focus on each aspect, includ-
ing Speech MOS (SMOS) for the quality of the main speaker,
Noise MOS (NMOS) for the quality as impacted by the pres-
ence of noise, and Overall MOS (OMOS) for the overall audio
quality. For the PLC APM, we label a smaller amount of data
(1/3rd the size of NSMOS data) instructing raters to score these
utterances solely for overall quality (i.e., OMOS).
For each processing type, we divide the dataset into train-
ing, validation, and testing sets in a 70:15:15 ratio, ensuring that
the distribution is maintained across languages and locales. We
also ensure that the speakers and utterances in each group are
unique, and the test data is held back for final evaluations. The
results presented in this paper are based solely on the test data.
3. Model Training
All the SMARTMOS models presented in this paper are trained
to predict quality scores for an audio clip that is around 10 sec-
onds. The model’s inputs are log-mel features computed over
a 20 ms frame that is generated with 10 ms overlap. We use
1024 size FFT and ablate over the number of mel-banks, details
of this experiment is captured in Section 5. All the models use
Adam optimizer and MSE loss for training. We use the mean of
the ratings from all raters per audio clip as the label for training
and testing the models.
3.1. Small vs Large Models
Standalone small models are trained to achieve low memory and
computational efficiency for both Noise Suppression MOS (NS-
MOS) and Packet Loss Concealment MOS (PLCMOS). The
model architecture is similar to DNSMOS [14], with the num-
ber of outputs of the model varied according to the processing
type. It is observed that replacing the global max pool layer with
a global average pool layer yields improved results in this setup.
These group of models use 40 filter banks. Due to the limited
availability of PLCMOS data, transfer learning techniques are
employed, wherein the model is initially trained on the overall
dataset and subsequently fine-tuned with the PLC dataset
To further investigate the impact of model architecture on
performance, larger SMARTMOS models are trained to exam-
ine the effects of increased receptive field and improved con-
text utilization. A secondary objective is to determine whether
these larger models could be leveraged to augment the train-
ing set with semi-supervised labels. This investigation entails
the use of higher-resolution input, incorporating larger input fil-
ter banks (e.g., 40, 80, and 120), as well as deeper and wider
network architectures. Furthermore, SMARTMOS models with
Emformer layers are trained to compare and contrast the atten-
tion mechanism with convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for
the tasks, providing insight into the relative strengths of each
approach.
Emformer [21] is a transformer architecture variant that
uses a fixed-length context window to attend to the input se-
quence, rather than attending to the entire sequence at once.
In Emformers, the left and right context lengths determine the
number of time steps the model considers before and after the
current time step when processing the input sequence. The seg-
ment size represents the chunk of the input sequence processed
in the current time step. These parameters primarily impact the
analysis context for the Emformer, while the number of lay-
ers affects long-range dependencies. Feature stacking is a tech-
nique used to increase context per time step by concatenating
past and future time step features with the present time step.
The receptive field can be controlled using both feature stack-
ing and context lengths.
3.2. Joint On-device Models
SMARTMOS models trained for on-device deployment are
based on CNN architecture and our goal is to train a sin-
gle model to predict both the PLC and NS MOS scores. As
explained in section 2 PLC (OMOS only) and NS data set
have different types of MOS labels which complicates the joint
model training.
We try a semi-supervised approach to overcome this label
mismatch issue by training a single SMARTMOS model with
four output targets: three outputs for NS scores and one for pre-
dicting the OMOS for PLC. Unlike traditional semi-supervised
learning methods [22, 23, 24], which use a pre-trained model
to generate same type of labels for unlabelled data, we use one
model to generate labels for the dataset of another model, effec-
tively bridging the gap between datasets. As shown in Table 1,
we use standalone Emformer models trained for NS and PLC
cases as teachers to predict pseudo-labels for the other dataset,
thereby creating a cross model knowledge transfer. This ap-
proach is non-trivial because the artifacts penalized by the MOS
model during scoring differ between APMs. Scores do not cor-
relate well when using NSMOS for PLC APM scoring and vice
versa, with correlations as low as 50%.
3166

Table 1: Labels used for each dataset to train four score joint
model.
Data OMOS NS OMOS PLC N and S MOS
NSMOS Human ratings PLCMOS Em-
former Human ratings
PLCMOS NSMOS
Emformer Human ratings NSMOS
Emformer
4. On-Device model deployment
The SMARTMOS model is developed with the aim to deploy it
in V oIP apps so we can understand, monitor and improve quality
of audio for Meta Communication services. To ensure seamless
calling experience for the user we have to ensure the models
are running efficiently on-device and have minimal impact on
memory, CPU and battery. These aims are achieved by imple-
menting a smart strategy to select audio segments, rate limit-
ing number of MOS evaluations during a call and restructuring
the SMARTMOS model to prevent single shot processing of 10
seconds audio data.
4.1. Audio Segment Selection
The selection of the best available 10 second segment of audio
is done by using a voice activity detector(V AD) in combination
with a small state machine as shown in Figure 1. The sampler
operates with predetermined action in one of the three states:
”speech” , ”silence”, and ”null”. While in ”speech” state the
sampler actively buffers the frames of processing if voice ac-
tivity is present otherwise it transitions to ”silence” sate. The
sampler only invalidates the buffered data if ”silence” detected
for X seconds and the sampler then transitions to ”null” state.
As seen from the figure we build stickiness in each state to pre-
vent unnecessary invalidation of accumulated audio. We also
use the sampler to rate limit the the MOS evaluations to Y in Z
minutes. We initialize the sampler from the ”null” state at the
start of the call. The values of parameters are X, Y and Z are
tuned heuristically.
null
Initialization
is_speech
speech
is_speech 
silence
is_silence
is_speech
< 
X 
ms 
since 
is_speech 
or 
is_silence
> 
X 
ms 
since 
is_speech
Rate 
limited
Rate 
limited 
Rate 
limited 
or 
is_silence
Figure 1: Smart Sampler Operation.
4.2. Reducing CPU Spikes
Evaluating over 10 second segment of audio in single shot
causes unnecessary spike in CPU. To address this, we split the
model into two parts: encoder, which contains all the convolu-
tion layers and predictor, which has the fully connected compo-
nents as seen in the Figure 2. The input audio segment is split
into chunks (e.g. 0.1 seconds each) and processed through the
encoder at a slower rate, the embedding from the encoder are
accumulated and processed in single shot when the embedding
for full segments are available.
We compare the CPU usage of the streaming model with
Figure 2: Streaming inference with encoder predictor structure
state machine based sampling against the non-streaming model
on-device. As shown in Figure 3, the modified model’s CPU
usage remains within a range and predicts Y times every Z
minute, whereas the non-streaming model peaks every 10 sec-
onds, which is not desirable for a real-time system.
Figure 3: CPU usage for streaming model w/ sampler vs non-
streaming model, where (X, Y , Z) = (2s, 1, 1min)
5. Experiments and results
In the following subsections, we analyze the performance of
the models through a series of experiments. Specifically, we
employ Pearson Correlation Coefficient (PCC) [25] to compare
the correlation between the mean scores from subjective evalu-
ations and the model’s MOS predictions per audio clip.
The SMARTMOS models are trained to mimic our sub-
jective evaluation process and predict the scores similar to the
trained raters that we used during our study.
These scores might be different than the ones predicted by
other SOTA models like DNSMOS or TorchSquim [26]. This
mismatch does not mean one model is superior to another, it
just highlights the inherent variability of subjective testing and
each model is trying to predict/conform to its training dataset or
achieve a particular objective.
For example, while the DNSMOS model has a PCC
of 69.2% when evaluated on our test dataset, SMARTMOS
achieves a PCC of 92% for OMOS. A direct comparison of the
model’s capabilities and presenting this number to readers will
incorrectly reflect poorly on capabilities of the DNSMOS mod-
els.
We also make a deliberate choice to not present objective
scores such as PESQ in this study because these metrics don’t
correlate well with human ratings [14].
3167

Table 2: PCC % for best CNN and Emformer models on held
out test sets.
MOS Type Num
Param
OMOS
NS
OMOS
PLC NMOS SMOS
PLC CNN 45K NA 85.1 NA NA
PLC CNN 68K NA 84.1 NA NA
PLC EMF 1M NA 85.5 NA NA
NS CNN 45K 90.8 NA 87.8 89.7
NS CNN 68K 91.2 NA 89.1 89.2
NS EMF 1M 92.9 NA 91.6 91.5
Joint CNN
(3S) 45K 91.5 82.3 89.7 89.8
Joint CNN
(4S) 45K 91.9 84.6 90.1 90.3
5.1. Correlation to Human Opinion Scores
Table 2 presents the correlations of the top-performing CNN
and Emformer models. The results are calculated on the held-
out test sets corresponding to each dataset. Notably, the joint
MOS model with four scores outperforms the standalone NS-
MOS model for the NS task and achieves comparable per-
formance to the standalone PLCMOS models for the PLC
task. This improvement is attributed to the inclusion of semi-
supervised labels from the best offline models. In contrast, the
joint three scores model shows a degradation in the OMOS PLC
correlation. This regression might be caused by (1) data imbal-
ance between the two datasets or (2) differences in the quality
prediction task between the processing algorithms. The Em-
former models do exhibit better performance which is accom-
panied with larger model size.
Table 3: PCC % for Emformer NSMOS models with just OMOS
on heldout test sets. LMEL denotes number of log-mel filter-
banks used and L, R denotes left and right context respectively
LMEL Num Layers [L,R] OMOS
120 (FS)
5 [10, 1] 92.2
2 [10, 1] 91.7
2 [4, 1] 91.5
3 [10, 1] 92.6
40 (FS) 2 [10, 1] 91.5
10 [4, 1] 92.1
40 3 [4, 1] 90.1
Table 4: PCC % for best Emformer NSMOS models with all 3
scores on held out test sets. LMEL denotes number of log-mel
filterbanks used.
LMEL Num
Layers [L,R] OMOS SMOS NMOS
40 (FS) 3 [10, 1] 92.9 91.5 91.5
120 (FS)
3 [10, 1] 92.9 91.5 91.6
9 [10, 1] 92.7 91.2 91.7
3 [30, 2] 92.8 91.4 91.4
9 [30, 2] 92.2 91.1 90.7
5.2. Emformer Ablations
We conduct ablations on the Emformers by fixing the segment
size to ten but varying the size of left and right context and
the number of Emformer layers. Each input feature consists of
four stacked frames. We perform two experiments for NSMOS
dataset, one with OMOS score predictions (Table 3) and another
that predicts all three sets of MOS scores. (Table 4).
The gap between the performance of the CNN and Em-
former for both NS and PLC cases is not significantly large (Ta-
ble 2). We hypothesize that the local context is more important
for predicting quality than a larger receptive field. Therefore
Emformers do not benefit a lot over the CNN’s even when they
are able to attend to the entire feature dimension over a larger
context. The Emformer benefit more from the stacked features
as compared to the CNN models. However, increasing the re-
ceptive field through feature stacking or context lengths comes
at a high computational cost. The best-performing Emformers
have nearly one million parameters (Table 2), making CNNs a
better choice for on-device deployments due to their lower com-
putational requirements. Additionally, We also see that predict-
ing the three scores together improves OMOS correlations.
5.3. Correlation in Real-Time Calls
We deployed SMARTMOS models on-device using techniques
mentioned in section 4 to generate audio quality scores that fo-
cused on measuring the performance of noise suppression (NS)
modules in two calling apps. The score generation was done
in real-time to maintain user privacy, covering approximately
200k calls per app. The OMOS NS scores from SMARTMOS
models were reported back along with user surveys. When users
rate call quality, they often use star ratings that reflect a mix of
issues caused by both network and audio processing algorithms.
These comparisons demonstrate the generalisability of the
MOS model in rating the APM (in this case NS), as real-world
calls involve diverse background noise scenarios not seen dur-
ing training. They also have different on-device NS APMs
(hardware/software) depending on the user’s calling device.
Our experiments found calls with higher quality scores tend to
have fewer noise related complaints and vice versa. This sug-
gests that our SMARTMOS models are effective at measuring
call quality issues specific to an APM. Additionally, this is also
significant because real-world surveys are often sparse, and the
SMARTMOS models serve as a proxy to fill gaps in the surveys,
providing valuable insights into real-world calls.
6. Conclusion and future work
We train SMARTMOS a single joint audio quality prediction
model for rating both Noise Suppression and Packet Loss Con-
cealment APMs in real-time telecommunication, using semi-
supervised techniques. We demonstrate techniques that make
the SMARTMOS model work on-device without increasing
CPU load and show correlation with metrics from real-time
calls. Additionally, we find Emformers with larger receptive
fields slightly outperform CNNs but at a high computational
cost, making CNNs a better choice for on-device deployments.
Future work includes expanding SMARTMOS models to
rate other modules like AEC and experimenting with ensemble
techniques to model the rating process as a whole, providing
insights into how hard a particular audio is to rate.
7. Acknowledgement
The authors would like to thank Yun Li and Corey Bofill for
helping with experiments in section 5.3.
3168

8. References
[1] A. Rix, J. Beerends, M. Hollier, and A. Hekstra, “Perceptual eval-
uation of speech quality (pesq)-a new method for speech quality
assessment of telephone networks and codecs,” in 2001 IEEE In-
ternational Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Process-
ing. Proceedings (Cat. No.01CH37221) , vol. 2, 2001, pp. 749–
752 vol.2.
[2] J. G. Beerends, C. Schmidmer, J. Berger, M. Obermann,
R. Ullmann, J. Pomy, and M. Keyhl, “Perceptual objective
listening quality assessment (polqa), the third generation itu-
t standard for end-to-end speech quality measurement part
i-temporal alignment,” Journal of The Audio Engineering
Society, vol. 61, pp. 366–384, 2013. [Online]. Available:
https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:14345244
[3] A. Hines, J. Skoglund, A. Kokaram, and N. Harte, “Visqol: The
virtual speech quality objective listener,” in IWAENC 2012; In-
ternational Workshop on Acoustic Signal Enhancement, 2012, pp.
1–4.
[4] B. Naderi and R. Cutler, “An open source implementation of
itu-t recommendation p. 808 with validation,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2005.08138, 2020.
[5] ——, “A crowdsourcing extension of the itu-t recommendation p.
835 with validation,” arXiv e-prints, 2020.
[6] ITU-T, “Subjective diagnostic test method for conversational
speech quality analysis,” International Telecommunication Union,
Recommendation P.804, 2017.
[7] E. Cooper, W.-C. Huang, T. Toda, and J. Yamagishi, “Generaliza-
tion ability of mos prediction networks,” in ICASSP 2022 - 2022
IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing (ICASSP), 2022, pp. 8442–8446.
[8] P. Manocha and A. Kumar, “Speech quality assessment through
mos using non-matching references,” in Interspeech, 2022.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.12285
[9] A. Baevski, H. Zhou, A. Mohamed, and M. Auli, “wav2vec 2.0:
a framework for self-supervised learning of speech representa-
tions,” in Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on
Neural Information Processing Systems , ser. NIPS ’20. Red
Hook, NY , USA: Curran Associates Inc., 2020.
[10] W.-N. Hsu, B. Bolte, Y .-H. H. Tsai, K. Lakhotia, R. Salakhut-
dinov, and A. Mohamed, “Hubert: Self-supervised speech rep-
resentation learning by masked prediction of hidden units,”
IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Pro-
cessing, vol. 29, pp. 3451–3460, 2021.
[11] J. Serr `a, J. Pons, and S. Pascual, “Sesqa: Semi-supervised learn-
ing for speech quality assessment,” in ICASSP 2021 - 2021 IEEE
International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Pro-
cessing (ICASSP), 2021, pp. 381–385.
[12] J. Coldenhoff, A. Harper, P. Kendrick, T. Stojkovic, and M. Cer-
nak, “Multi-channel mosra: Mean opinion score and room acous-
tics estimation using simulated data and a teacher model,” in
ICASSP 2024 - 2024 IEEE International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2024, pp. 381–385.
[13] M. Purin, S. Sootla, M. Sponza, A. Saabas, and R. Cutler, “Aec-
mos: A speech quality assessment metric for echo impairment,”
in ICASSP 2022 - 2022 IEEE International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2022, pp. 901–905.
[14] C. K. A. Reddy, V . Gopal, and R. Cutler, “Dnsmos p.835: A
non-intrusive perceptual objective speech quality metric to eval-
uate noise suppressors,” in ICASSP 2022 - 2022 IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP), 2022, pp. 886–890.
[15] L. Diener, M. Purin, S. Sootla, A. Saabas, R. Aichner, and
R. Cutler, “Plcmos–a data-driven non-intrusive metric for the
evaluation of packet loss concealment algorithms,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.15127, 2023.
[16] C.-C. Lo, S.-W. Fu, W.-C. Huang, X. Wang, J. Yam-
agishi, Y . Tsao, and H. Wang, “Mosnet: Deep learn-
ing based objective assessment for voice conversion,”
ArXiv, vol. abs/1904.08352, 2019. [Online]. Available:
https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:118686423
[17] B. Patton, Y . Agiomyrgiannakis, M. Terry, K. W. Wil-
son, R. A. Saurous, and D. Sculley, “Automos: Learn-
ing a non-intrusive assessor of naturalness-of-speech,”
ArXiv, vol. abs/1611.09207, 2016. [Online]. Available:
https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:15948725
[18] G. Yi, W. Xiao, Y . Xiao, B. Naderi, S. Moller, W. Wardah, G. Mit-
tag, R. Cutler, Z. Zhang, D. S. Williamson, F. Chen, F. Yang, and
S. Shang, “Conferencingspeech 2022 challenge: Non-intrusive
objective speech quality assessment (nisqa) challenge for on-
line conferencing applications,” in Interspeech, 2022. [Online].
Available: https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:247794123
[19] Z. Zhang, P. Vyas, X. Dong, and D. S. Williamson, “An end-to-
end non-intrusive model for subjective and objective real-world
speech assessment using a multi-task framework,” in ICASSP
2021 - 2021 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech
and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2021, pp. 316–320.
[20] B. Naderi, R. Cutler, and N.-C. Ristea, “Multi-dimensional speech
quality assessment in crowdsourcing,” in ICASSP 2024 - 2024
IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing (ICASSP), 2024, pp. 696–700.
[21] Y . Shi, Y . Wang, C. Wu, C.-F. Yeh, J. Chan, F. Zhang, D. Le,
and M. Seltzer, “Emformer: Efficient memory transformer based
acoustic model for low latency streaming speech recognition,” in
ICASSP 2021 - 2021 IEEE International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) , 2021, pp. 6783–
6787.
[22] A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, and G. E. Hinton, “Semi-supervised
learning for image classification,” inAdvances in Neural Informa-
tion Processing Systems, 2012, pp. 1097–1105.
[23] G. E. Dahl, D. Yu, L. Liu, and A. Acero, “Semi-supervised learn-
ing for speech recognition,” in IEEE International Conference
on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2012, pp.
4773–4776.
[24] T. M. Mitchell, W. W. Cohen, R. Caruana, D. Freitag, and
F. Pereira, “Semi-supervised learning for natural language pro-
cessing,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
2010, pp. 1097–1105.
[25] K. Pearson, “Notes on regression and inheritance in the case of
two parents,”Proceedings of the Royal Society of London, vol. 58,
pp. 240–242, 1895.
[26] A. Kumar et al., “Torchaudio-squim: Reference-less speech qual-
ity and intelligibility measures in torchaudio,” in ICASSP 2023-
2023 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2023.
3169
