PhonemeFake: Redefining Deepfake Realism with Language-Driven
Segmental Manipulation and Adaptive Bilevel Detection
Oguzhan Baser1∗, A. Ege Tanriverdi1∗, Sriram Vishwanath1,2, Sandeep Chinchali1
1Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, The University of Texas at Austin, USA
2Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
oguzhanbaser@utexas.edu
Abstract
Deepfake (DF) attacks pose a growing threat as generative mod-
els become increasingly advanced. However, our study reveals
that existing DF datasets fail to deceive human perception, un-
like real DF attacks that influence public discourse. It high-
lights the need for more realistic DF attack vectors. We intro-
duce PhonemeFake (PF), a DF attack that manipulates critical
speech segments using language reasoning, significantly reduc-
ing human perception by up to 42% and benchmark accuracies
by up to 94%. We release an easy-to-use PF dataset on Hug-
gingFace and open-source bilevel DF segment detection model
that adaptively prioritizes compute on manipulated regions. Our
extensive experiments across three known DF datasets reveal
that our detection model reduces EER by 91% while achieving
up to 90% speed-up, with minimal compute overhead and pre-
cise localization beyond existing models as a scalable solution.
Index Terms: segmental deepfake, language reasoning, bilevel
model, human perception, gating decision
1. Introduction
Advancements in generative models have revolutionized the
creation of synthetic content, enabling models to produce highly
realistic audio, videos, and texts. Recent results, such as
SORA’s ability to generate high-fidelity photorealistic videos
from text prompts, or GPT-like language models (LM) produc-
ing human-like conversations that are mostly indistinguishable
from real interactions, highlight the capabilities of such tech-
nologies [1, 2]. Although promising for applications such as
creative media and virtual simulations [3], it increases the risk
of misuse. Sophisticated deepfake (DF) attacks now exploit
subtle manipulations to deceive systems and humans alike, from
segmental changes in audio to altered video frames [4, 5]. Such
developments expose critical vulnerabilities in existing detec-
tion mechanisms that often struggle to keep up with the grow-
ing complexity of generative models. Even beyond audio and
video, missing subtle time-series forgeries (e.g., in EEG) has se-
vere consequences [6]. To effectively address these challenges,
there is an urgent need for more comprehensive benchmarks
and detection models that can reliably distinguish real from syn-
thetic content, even in the face of highly refined DFs [7, 8].
Despite significant advancements in DF detection, existing
datasets and models fall short of addressing the complexities of
real-world attacks. Current datasets predominantly feature syn-
thetic content generated entirely from scratch, where the entire
media (e.g., video, audio) is either completely original or en-
tirely manipulated. While these datasets and the DF detection
models trained with them achieve moderate success, they fail
*The first two authors have equal contribution.
Figure 1: What would be a more realistic DF attack and how
does language reasoning help DF synthesis? Our pipeline
for generating segmentally manipulated DF audio samples in-
tegrates LM reasoning to emulate plausible and realistic DF
attacks. Starting from a bon-a-fide audio recording, the tran-
scription and timing are extracted using Whisper, and a specific
target word or phrase is identified for manipulation with an LM.
The manipulation process employs one of three strategies: in-
version, where a word is replaced with its antonym; insertion,
where a negating or altering phrase is added; and deletion,
where a critical word is omitted. These modifications are then
synthesized using a TTS model to generate the manipulated ut-
terance. The resulting DF retains the original flow, making de-
tection challenging while reflecting real attack scenarios.
to replicate and detect the nuanced nature of real-world DF at-
tacks. For example, a realistic attack may involve altering only
the critical segments of a speech while leaving the surrounding
content intact. This limitation is further evident in Fig. 2 as
it highlights that humans can reliably identify DFs in existing
datasets but struggle significantly when faced with our dataset
that introduces only segmental manipulations in critical utter-
ances. Moreover, existing detection models are often biased
towards predicting content as original when the initial segments
appear authentic, reflecting a systemic lack of high-resolution
detection capabilities for fine-grained manipulations. This bias
arises from the training data, which disproportionately features
media that is either fully original or fully synthesized. As a
result, these models cannot effectively capture and localize sub-
tle manipulations within a partially altered dataset, leading to
lower accuracy in detecting realistic DF scenarios. Addressing
these challenges requires a shift towards more representative
datasets and detection models capable of handling localized,
fine-grained manipulations, thereby bridging the gap between
controlled research settings and real-world applications.
We observe that the state-of-the-art (SoTA) DF detection
models rely on datasets where the entirety of each sample is
either fully synthetic or fully original [8, 9, 10]. This approach
overlooks targeted real-world DF attacks, manipulating only the
most crucial segments of a sample while leaving the rest intact.
Consequently, existing models struggle to identify these fine-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
5333 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2583
grained manipulations, as they are optimized to detect global
inconsistencies rather than localized alterations. Our key tech-
nical insight is in natural language and human communication,
critical information is often concentrated in specific segments of
a sentence or speech. For example, in a sentence, the words or
phrases that carry high semantic or contextual weight are more
likely to be the targets of DF manipulations. Based on this,
we hypothesize that prioritizing the analysis of these critical
segments can improve detection efficiency and accuracy. This
focus aligns with how real-world attackers are likely to craft
manipulations, targeting the most impactful segments to max-
imize deception while minimizing detectable alterations. To
address these concerns, we present a segmentally manipulated
dataset and a search-then-infer detection model to target critical
regions, enhancing DF detection accuracy and efficiency.
Literature Review: Existing audio DF detection methods rely on
ML-based classification [9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14] or feature-level
manipulations [8, 15] (e.g., signatures, watermarking) but over-
look semantic cues and language reasoning. While recent works
use LM embeddings for robustness [16, 17, 18], they assume
binary utterance-level classification, failing to detect segmen-
tal manipulations. PhonemeFake bridges this gap by explicitly
targeting localized, semantically driven deepfake alterations. In
the light of prior work, our contributions are three-fold:
• New Attack Vector: We introduce a novel segmental DF at-
tack vector that manipulates (e.g., inversion, deletion, and
insertion) critical audio segments while preserving the sur-
rounding content, better reflecting real-world attacks.
• New DF Dataset: We develop, PhonemeFake (PF), an easy-
to-use, dataset 1 tailored for segmentally manipulated audio.
This dataset significantly reduces the performance of the cur-
rent SoTA detection models, highlighting their limitations.
• Fast DF Detection Model : We release a fine-grained de-
tection method 2, PhonemeFakeDetect (PFD), optimized for
segmental manipulations, achieving up to 90% speedup over
existing SoTA while reducing the error rate by up to 91%.
2. Method
Our method comprises two key components: a generation
pipeline that constructs a segmental DF audio dataset and
a multi-level DF detection model designed to provide high-
resolution timestamps for manipulation occurrences, as shown
in Fig. 1 and Fig. 3, respectively.
2.1. PFD: A Multi-Level Segmental DF Analysis Model
Our method operates on two temporal resolutions, optimiz-
ing both computational efficiency and detection accuracy. The
Low-Frequency (LF) stream processes the audio signal in
large temporal windows, capturing broad contextual and tem-
poral information. It serves as a preliminary lightweight filter,
identifying regions of interest (ROIs) while maintaining low
computational overhead. The high frequency (HF) stream
performs a detailed frame-by-frame analysis of the audio signal
within the identified ROIs. Leveraging a more computationally
intensive model, it extracts high-resolution features to scrutinize
localized segments for subtle manipulations.This dual-stream
approach balances global context awareness with localized pre-
1https://huggingface.co/datasets/phonemefake/
PhonemeFakeV2
2https://github.com/UTAustin-SwarmLab/
PhonemeFake
Figure 2: Do Current DF Datasets Deceive Humans? Percep-
tion accuracy on 93 samples from 78 participants shows Phone-
meFake is harder to detect than existing DF datasets.
cision, leveraging a dynamic gating mechanism to selectively
activate the expensive HF stream only when necessary.
2.1.1. LF Stream: Rough Analysis for ROIs
The input audio signal is divided into T coarse temporal win-
dows, each of size ∆T . For each window t∈{ 1,...,T }, the
LF stream extracts low-dimensional features ulf
t ∈ Rdlf using
a lightweight convolutional encoder. These features are then
processed by an LF-LSTM network denoted as:
hlf
t, clf
t = LSTM(lf)(ulf
t, hlf
t−1, clf
t−1;θlf), (1)
where hlf
t and clf
t represent the hidden and cell states of the LF
LSTM at timet. The prediction for LF frame t is computed as
ˆyt =σ(W lf hlf
t ) whereW lf is a projection for LF predictions.
The LF-LSTM output serves as a preliminary filter, iden-
tifying ROIs where manipulations are likely. These ROIs are
passed to the gating mechanism to decide whether the HF
stream should be engaged for further analysis.
2.1.2. Gating: Dynamic Activation of the HF Stream
The gating mechanism determines whether a detailed HF analy-
sis is necessary for a given windowt. It takes the LF featureulf
t ,
the LF-LSTM state hlf
t , the HF-LSTM state from the previous
step hhf
t−1 and computes gating decision bt as:
gt =θg[ulf
t, hlf
t−1, hhf
t−1], (2)
whereθg is a learnable projection matrix and [·] denotes con-
catenation. gt is a binary decision sampled from Bernoulli dis-
tribution parametrized byθg, as shown by:
gt =
(
1 if HF analysis is required,
0 otherwise. (3)
However, it is not differentiable through the argmax func-
tion. Using Gumbel-Softmax [19, 20] we approximate the dis-
crete gating decision gt to a differentiable random variableGt.
For binary prediction setting ( K = 2 ), where class proba-
bilities are proportional to gk, sampling from the categorical
distribution is Gt = argmaxk
 
loggk
t +Nk
t

where Nk =
− log(− log(Uk)) is Gumbel noise, andUk∼ Uniform(0, 1).
This enables discrete sampling. However, argmax is nondiffer-
entiable, making it unsuitable for backpropagation. To resolve
it, the Gumbel-Softmax relaxation approximates the sampling
with a differentiable softmax, shown as:
Gi
t = exp
 
(loggi
t +Ni
t )/µ

PK
j=1 exp
 
(loggj
t +Nj
t )/µ
, i ∈{ 0, 1}.
5334
The temperatureµ >0 controls the distribution sharpness. As
µ → 0, the output approximates the argmax’s discreteness,
while largerµ allows smoother and more exploratory decisions.
2.1.3. HF Stream: Fine Resolution DF Detection
WhenG0
t = 1 , the HF Stream extracts high-dimensional fea-
tures uhf
τ ∈ Rdhf using a compute-intensive LSTM. Unlike LF-
stream, HF-stream is processed in higher resolution stepsT′ of
size ∆T′ = ∆T
T ′ . These fine features obtained from the narrow
windowτ, concatenated with the LF features, are processed by
the HF-LSTM to capture local temporal dynamics:
h′hf
τ , c′hf
τ = LSTM(hf)([uhf
τ , ulf
t ], hhf
τ−1, chf
τ−1;θhf). (4)
IfG1
t = 1, the old HF-LSTM state is spread without an update
to keep the temporal context (hhf
τ = hhf
τ−1, chf
τ = chf
τ−1), as in:
hhf
t = Gt

h′hf
T ′
hhf
t−1

, chf
t = Gt

c′hf
T ′
chf
t−1

(5)
We use hhf
t to predict the high-resolution frame τ by ˆyτ =
σ(W hf hhf
τ ), where W hf is a learnable projection and σ(·) is
the sigmoid. The binary ˆyt indicates whether the frame is real.
2.1.4. Training Procedure
The model is trained to optimize both detection accuracy and
computational efficiency using a composite loss functionL. For
each broad window, it sums the binary cross-entropy loss for
both LF and HF classifications along with a fine-usage penalty
scaled by mixture factorλ to limit HF activations, given as:
Lt =

G0
t G1
t

"
λ−PT ′
τ=1
h
yτ ln(ˆyτ ) + (1−yτ ) ln(1− ˆyτ )
i
−
 
yt ln(ˆyt) + (1−yt) ln(1− ˆyt)

#
,
(6)
whereyt,yτ is the ground-truth label for framet,τ andλ con-
trols the tradeoff between accuracy and efficiency. Then, the
loss for each broad window is minimized as:
min
{θg,θlf,θhf,W lf,W hf}
Egt∼Bernoulli(gt;θg)
(x,y)∼Dtrain
[Lt]. (7)
This optimizes detection, with the Bernoulli term adaptively
triggering HF analysis only in suspected regions for efficiency.
This bilevel strategy reduces the model’s complexity from
O (T·T′·CHF) to O (T·CLF +p·T·T′·CHF), where
CHF and CLF denote the complexities of the HF and LF
streams, respectively, and p (tuned by λ) is the HF activation
probability (approximately 0.1 in our experiments).
Why do we prefer LSTMs over transformers?
Our DF detection aims to localize subtle and segment-level ma-
nipulations. LSTMs inherently operate on temporal order and
capture local dependencies, crucial for detecting fine-grained
manipulations, whereas transformers compute global pairwise
interactions, not necessary for our task, at a higher overhead.
Also, ours worst-case complexity is O(TT′), whereas trans-
formers incur O((TT′)2) due to self-attention [21]. Lastly,
LSTMs’ inherent sequential processing naturally complements
our bilevel framework’s gating mechanism.
2.2. PhonemeFake DF Generation
We design our synthesis pipeline to create realistic DFs lever-
aging LM reasoning, as described in Fig. 1. Let the in-
put audio be x(t), with its corresponding transcription w =
Figure 3: How can we efficiently detect fine-grained DF ma-
nipulations? Our bilevel detection model first uses an LF
stream to identify RoI, then selectively activates an HF stream
via Gumbel-Softmax gating for fine-grained analysis, ensuring
high accuracy and resolution with minimal compute overhead.
{w1,w 2,...,w N}, wherewi denotes thei-th word, andti the
timestamp. We manipulate the utterance ¯x(t) by modifying the
target segments ofx(t) followed by synthesis and fading.
We extract audio x(t)’s transcription w and word-level tim-
ing t ={t1,t 2,...,t N} using the transcription model ψ by
(w,t ) = ψ(x;θψ) [22, 23]. Then, we identify the most se-
mantically critical word w∗∈w by prompting the LM Γ as
w∗ = Γ(.,w ;θL). Let fi(·) denote the manipulation function
operating in three modes i∈{ 1, 2, 3}: (1) Inversion: Replace
w∗ with its antonym w′, yielding f1(w∗) = w′. (2) Insertion:
Add a phrasew† aroundw∗, such thatf2(w∗) ={w†,w∗}. (3)
Deletion: Removew∗, resulting in :f2(w∗) =∅. The manipu-
lated transcription ¯w becomes ¯w ={w\w∗}∪ fi(w∗). Next,
the TTS model ϕ synthesizes the manipulated segment fi(w∗)
into audio ¯x∗ =ϕ(x,fi(w∗);θϕ). To refine synthesized audio
and ensure natural transitions, we apply a post-processing func-
tionP(·), which handles tasks such as silence trimming and
fade-in/out transitions in audio as ¯x(t) =P(x(t), ¯x∗,t ).
The resulting manipulated audio ¯x(t) integrates subtle, local-
ized manipulations while maintaining the natural prosody and
flow of the original audio. This pipeline generates DFs that re-
flect semantically plausible and temporally coherent real-world
attacks while remaining challenging for detection models.
3. Experimental Setup
Here, we outline the data, baselines, training, and test settings.
Datasets: We evaluate our approach on three datasets. Wave-
Fake (WF) [24] contains over 100,000 synthetic speech sam-
ples generated using six TTS models, offering a controlled
benchmark focused on synthesis variations but it lacks real-
world variability. In-the-Wild Audio DF (ITW) [25] captures
DFs from real-world sources, introducing variations in record-
ing conditions and background noise to assess the detection
model generalization. ASVspoof21 (ASV) [26], part of the
ASVspoof challenge, serves as a standardized benchmark for
DF detection in speaker verification. SpoofCeleb (SC) [27]
features 800+ speakers and diverse TTS/VC attacks sourced
from online media, offering ITW cases. All consist of full DFs,
which are largely trivial for human perception, as shown in Fig.
2. Unlike those, HAD [4] benchmarks partial DFs via manual
tampering yet its forgeries sound robotic. We offer a language-
5335
Table 1: DF Samples Synthesized from The Benchmarks
Datasets WF ITW ASV21 PF (Ours)
Samples 11,201 15,333 16,361 42,895
Duration (h) 22.37 19.06 16.47 57.91
driven pipeline for semantically coherent manipulations.
Detection Models: We benchmark our approach against three
SoTA DF detection models. SASV2 [9] learns a unified
embedding space for speaker verification and spoof detec-
tion via multi-stage contrastive learning and copy synthesis-
augmented data. SCL [10] improves generalization by treat-
ing re-synthesized DFs as hard negatives and applying bal-
anced contrastive learning for robustness against unseen at-
tacks. AASIST [28] uses spectro-temporal graph attention
on raw waveforms, achieving strong ASVspoof performance
without handcrafted features. RawBMamba RM [14] lever-
ages a bidirectional state-space model to capture short- and
long-range dependencies , combining SincNet-based convolu-
tions with Mamba blocks for feature extraction. However, all
process full utterances globally, lacking thetemporal resolution
to detect localized segmental manipulations. While RM is the
closest to our approach, it inefficiently processes the full in-
put without selective refinement. In contrast, our bilevel model
adaptively focuses on the critical regions, achieving efficient
and precise detection. As no public models exist for audio
forgery detection, we finetune a multi-modal forgery localizer,
MMA [29], to audio with blank images for a fair comparison.
Hyperparameters: We compute PFD’s LF stream over 1s win-
dows for 64 mel bins and HF over 10ms for 128 mel bins, yield-
ing a fine factor of 100. We model the LF and HF streams
with 4-layer and 64-layer LSTMs (128 hidden size), respec-
tively. The gating mechanism is regulated with a penalty factor
λ = 0.1 to limit unnecessary HF activations, balancing accu-
racy and efficiency. We use Gumbel-Softmax with µ = 1 for
smooth gradient flow over gating. We employ Adam (lr=10−5)
with a scheduler, stopping after 20 epochs of no improvement in
the validation loss. We run all on an 8x NVIDIA A100 cluster.
Evaluation: All baselines were pretrained on ASV and fine-
tuned on PF, ensuring equal exposure to our data. We retain
originals as negatives to enforce subtle manipulation detection.
We assess the methods using Equal Error Rate (EER) [30].
4. Results
Now, we analyze PF’s impact on human and SoTA perception.
Do Existing DF Datasets Truly Deceive Human Perception?
To assess the perceptual detectability of DF speech, we con-
ducted a user study with 78 participants spanning ages 6 to 55.
Each participant evaluated around 93 samples of bon-a-fide,
spoofed, and PF-variant speech from benchmark datasets. The
results in Fig. 2 reveal that existing DF datasets, particularly
ITW and ASV21, are easily distinguishable by human listeners,
suggesting that they do not accurately represent realistic
DF attacks capable of deceiving the public . In contrast, our
PF variants significantly reduced human detection accuracy
consistently in the datasets by up to 42%, while PF critically
altered the intended meaning , demonstrating a much stronger
similarity to real DF threats.
How Extensive and Realistic Is the PhonemeFake Dataset?
We generate DFs using the synthesis pipeline described in
Sec. 2.2, leveraging bon-a-fide samples from the ASV21, ITW,
Table 2: Detection Performance in EER % (↓) across Datasets
and Their PF Variants Denoting Segmenal Fakes.
ASV21 ITW WF
Model Base PF Base PF Base PF
SASV2 27.67 54.57 17.91 55.11 8.18 10.19
RM 15.65 43.92 12.44 62.86 33.14 94.96
SCL 2.63 21.37 4.51 22.79 1.79 23.11
PFD 7.46 10.99 9.62 12.15 5.29 9.31
and WF datasets. Our approach incorporates language-based
manipulations, producing 57.91 hours of synthesized DFs in
42,895 samples. This process extends DF audio datasets such
as ITW by 273% as shown in Table 1, significantly increasing
the diversity and realism of DF manipulations. Unlike fully
synthesized DFs, our segmental approach maintains the origi-
nal speaker’s identity and prosody, ensuring the manipulations
remain subtle yet semantically impactful . PF 87% likely
attacks the top BERT-attended word in a sentence.
Can SoTA Detection Models Withstand Subtle Deceptive DFs?
Table 2 presents the EER of SoTA DF detection models across
the benchmark datasets and their segmental variations. We
observe a consistent increase in EER by up to 12.9 times
when models are evaluated on our PF dataset, indicating their
vulnerability to subtle yet semantically impactful manipulations
that retain the speaker’s identity while altering the meaning.
How Does Our Bilevel Approach Fix This?
Compared to SoTA models, our bilevel detection method
demonstrates robust performance with EER reduction of up
to 91%, with only an increase of up to 0.76 times in EER
when transitioning from the original to the PF variants. This
stems from our adaptive hierarchical processing, where the LF
stream identifies RoI, allowing the HF stream to focus compute
on fine-grained manipulations. Prioritizing key segments over
full utterances improves precision while maintaining efficiency.
This provides a scalable and reliable framework for identifying
realistic, segmentally manipulated DFs . We observe that the
HF stream is activated only 10% of the time during inference,
proving the efficiency of the gating. Notably, the gate tends
to activate precisely at the start and end of the manipulated
segments, while remaining off in the middle . Besides, LM at-
tention is highly concentrated on altered segments, confirming
that our method effectively captures the linguistic and acoustic
inconsistencies introduced by DF modifications. Experimental
extensions with SC, HAD, AASIST, and MMA are in the repo.
5. Conclusion
We introduce a novel segmental DF attack vector, Phoneme-
Fake, reducing human and ML detection accuracy by up to
94%. Our human perception survey highlights that existing DFs
are easily recognizable, whereas our manipulations produce
more deceptive and realistic DF speech. To facilitate further re-
search, we release a comprehensive and user-friendly dataset
on Hugging Face, summing up to 57.91 hours. Also, we open-
source a computationally efficient bilevel detection frame-
work, capable of high-resolution timing prediction, achieving
up to 90% speed-up in inference while reducing detection EER
by 91% across multiple datasets. Future improvements include
integrating LM attention into the gating to refine the DF timing,
extending PF with more samples and cross-lingual attacks.
5336
6. Acknowledgments
This work was supported in part by the National Science Foun-
dation grants under No. 2148186 and No. 2133481. Any opin-
ions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed
in this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily
reflect the views of the National Science Foundation.
7. References
[1] Z. Xing, Q. Feng, H. Chen, Q. Dai, H. Hu, H. Xu, Z. Wu, and Y .-
G. Jiang, “A survey on video diffusion models,”ACM Computing
Surveys, vol. 57, no. 2, pp. 1–42, 2024.
[2] T. Brown, B. Mann, N. Ryder, M. Subbiah, J. D. Kaplan, P. Dhari-
wal, A. Neelakantan, P. Shyam, G. Sastry, A. Askell et al., “Lan-
guage models are few-shot learners,” Advances in Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems, vol. 33, pp. 1877–1901, 2020.
[3] N. Anantrasirichai and D. Bull, “Artificial intelligence in the cre-
ative industries: a review,” Artificial intelligence review, vol. 55,
no. 1, pp. 589–656, 2022.
[4] J. Yi, Y . Bai, J. Tao, H. Ma, Z. Tian, C. Wang, T. Wang, and
R. Fu, “Half-truth: A partially fake audio detection dataset,” in
Interspeech 2021, 2021, pp. 1654–1658.
[5] R. Zhang, H. Wang, M. Du, H. Liu, Y . Zhou, and Q. Zeng, “Um-
maformer: A universal multimodal-adaptive transformer frame-
work for temporal forgery localization,” inProceedings of the 31st
ACM International Conference on Multimedia , 2023, pp. 8749–
8759.
[6] O. Baser, M. Yavuz, K. Ugurlu, F. Onat, and B. U. Demirel, “Au-
tomatic detection of the spike-and-wave discharges in absence
epilepsy for humans and rats using deep learning,” Biomedical
Signal Processing and Control, vol. 76, p. 103726, 2022.
[7] Z. Yan, Y . Zhang, X. Yuan, S. Lyu, and B. Wu, “Deepfakebench:
A comprehensive benchmark of deepfake detection,”Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 36, pp. 4534–4565,
2023.
[8] O. Baser, K. Kale, and S. P. Chinchali, “Securespectra: Safeguard-
ing digital identity from deep fake threats via intelligent signa-
tures,” in Proc. Interspeech 2024, 2024, pp. 1115–1119.
[9] S. H. Mun, H. jin Shim, H. Tak, X. Wang, X. Liu, M. Sahidul-
lah, M. Jeong, M. H. Han, M. Todisco, K. A. Lee, J. Yamag-
ishi, N. Evans, T. Kinnunen, N. S. Kim, and J. weon Jung, “To-
wards single integrated spoofing-aware speaker verification em-
beddings,” in Interspeech 2023, 2023, pp. 3989–3993.
[10] T.-P. Doan, L. Nguyen-Vu, K. Hong, and S. Jung, “Balance, mul-
tiple augmentation, and re-synthesis: A triad training strategy for
enhanced audio deepfake detection,” in Proc. Interspeech 2024 ,
2024, pp. 2105–2109.
[11] C. Wang, J. Yi, J. Tao, C. Y . Zhang, S. Zhang, and X. Chen, “De-
tection of cross-dataset fake audio based on prosodic and pronun-
ciation features,” in Interspeech 2023, 2023, pp. 3844–3848.
[12] J. W. Lee, E. Kim, J. Koo, and K. Lee, “Representation selective
self-distillation and wav2vec 2.0 feature exploration for spoof-
aware speaker verification,” inInterspeech 2022, 2022, pp. 2898–
2902.
[13] Y . Xie, H. Cheng, Y . Wang, and L. Ye, “Learning a self-
supervised domain-invariant feature representation for general-
ized audio deepfake detection,” in Interspeech 2023, 2023, pp.
2808–2812.
[14] Y . Chen, J. Yi, J. Xue, C. Wang, X. Zhang, S. Dong, S. Zeng,
J. Tao, Z. Lv, and C. Fan, “Rawbmamba: End-to-end bidirectional
state space model for audio deepfake detection,” in Interspeech
2024, 2024, pp. 2720–2724.
[15] Y . Zhao, B. Liu, M. Ding, B. Liu, T. Zhu, and X. Yu, “Proac-
tive deepfake defence via identity watermarking,” in Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF winter conference on applications of computer
vision, 2023, pp. 4602–4611.
[16] Y . Lu, Y . Xie, R. Fu, Z. Wen, J. Tao, Z. Wang, X. Qi, X. Liu, Y . Li,
Y . Liu, X. Wang, and S. Shi, “Codecfake: An initial dataset for
detecting llm-based deepfake audio,” in Interspeech 2024, 2024,
pp. 1390–1394.
[17] P. Kawa, M. Plata, M. Czuba, P. Szyma ´nski, and P. Syga, “Im-
proved deepfake detection using whisper features,” inInterspeech
2023, 2023, pp. 4009–4013.
[18] K. Kale, H. Esfahanizadeh, N. Elias, O. Baser, M. M ´edard, and
S. Vishwanath, “Texshape: Information theoretic sentence em-
bedding for language models,” in 2024 IEEE International Sym-
posium on Information Theory (ISIT) . IEEE, 2024, pp. 2038–
2043.
[19] C. J. Maddison, A. Mnih, and Y . W. Teh, “The concrete distri-
bution: A continuous relaxation of discrete random variables,” in
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2022.
[20] T. Hazan and T. Jaakkola, “On the partition function and random
maximum a-posteriori perturbations,” in Proceedings of the 29th
International Coference on International Conference on Machine
Learning, 2012, pp. 1667–1674.
[21] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A. N.
Gomez, Ł. Kaiser, and I. Polosukhin, “Attention is all you need,”
Advances in neural information processing systems, vol. 30, 2017.
[22] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak
supervision,” in International conference on machine learning .
PMLR, 2023, pp. 28 492–28 518.
[23] A. Baevski, Y . Zhou, A. Mohamed, and M. Auli, “wav2vec
2.0: A framework for self-supervised learning of speech repre-
sentations,” Advances in neural information processing systems ,
vol. 33, pp. 12 449–12 460, 2020.
[24] J. Frank and L. Sch ¨onherr, “Wavefake: A data set to facilitate
audio deepfake detection,” in Thirty-fifth Conference on Neural
Information Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track
(Round 2).
[25] N. M ¨uller, P. Czempin, F. Diekmann, A. Froghyar, and
K. B¨ottinger, “Does audio deepfake detection generalize?” in In-
terspeech 2022, 2022, pp. 2783–2787.
[26] X. Liu, X. Wang, M. Sahidullah, J. Patino, H. Delgado, T. Kin-
nunen, M. Todisco, J. Yamagishi, N. Evans, A. Nautsch et al. ,
“Asvspoof 2021: Towards spoofed and deepfake speech detection
in the wild,”IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Lan-
guage Processing, vol. 31, pp. 2507–2522, 2023.
[27] J.-w. Jung, Y . Wu, X. Wang, J.-H. Kim, S. Maiti, Y . Matsunaga,
H.-j. Shim, J. Tian, N. Evans, J. S. Chung et al. , “Spoofceleb:
Speech deepfake detection and sasv in the wild,”IEEE Open Jour-
nal of Signal Processing, 2025.
[28] J.-w. Jung, H.-S. Heo, H. Tak, H.-j. Shim, J. S. Chung, B.-J. Lee,
H.-J. Yu, and N. Evans, “Aasist: Audio anti-spoofing using in-
tegrated spectro-temporal graph attention networks,” in ICASSP
2022-2022 IEEE international conference on acoustics, speech
and signal processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2022, pp. 6367–6371.
[29] R. Zhang, H. Wang, M. Du, H. Liu, Y . Zhou, and Q. Zeng, “Um-
maformer: A universal multimodal-adaptive transformer frame-
work for temporal forgery localization,” inProceedings of the 31st
ACM International Conference on Multimedia , 2023, pp. 8749–
8759.
[30] G. R. Doddington, M. A. Przybocki, A. F. Martin, and D. A.
Reynolds, “The nist speaker recognition evaluation–overview,
methodology, systems, results, perspective,” Speech communica-
tion, vol. 31, no. 2-3, pp. 225–254, 2000.
5337
