Adapting Whisper for low-resource Hindi-English Code-Mix speech with
on-the-fly Augmentation & LLM-Synthesised Data
Astik Biswas, Oleg Shevelev, Amine Abdaoui, Vivek Tyagi, Abdelmoumene Boumadane
OCI Speech, Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
astik.biswas@oracle.com, oleg.shevelev@oracle.com, amin.abdaoui@oracle.com,
vivek.v.tyagi@oracle.com, abdelmoumene.boumadane@oracle.com
Abstract
Code-switching (CS) automatic speech recognition (ASR)
faces challenges due to language confusion from accents,
acoustic similarities, and seamless transitions. In multilin-
gual India, CS is prevalent, yet adapting pre-trained Whis-
per for low-resource Indian CS-ASR remains under-explored.
This study explores strategies for adapting Whisper with lim-
ited data. First, we propose language prompts for fine-tuning
and on-the-fly code-mixed data simulation to handle language
switches. Second, we use Llama for few-shot code-switching
(CS) text generation, coupled with audio synthesis, to create
synthetic data for fine-tuning the Whisper model. Experiments
on a Hindi-English CS dataset show promising results, demon-
strating the techniques effectiveness. These findings are appli-
cable to other multilingual contexts, aiding Whisper’s adapta-
tion to new domains.
Index Terms: code-mix speech recognition, whisper, Llama,
augmentation
1. Introduction
Code-switching, the alternation between two or more languages
within a discourse, is a common phenomenon in multilingual
societies. In India, with 22 official languages and English as
the lingua franca, code-mixing often occurs through alternation
and insertion [1]. Speakers frequently switch between English,
a high-resource language, and their native, under-resourced lan-
guages. This practice is prevalent across diverse domains such
as banking, real estate, healthcare, and education, highlighting
the unavoidable role of English as a bridge language usually.
The prevalence of code-switching presents a significant
challenge for Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) systems,
as it demands nuanced multilingual understanding [1]. Cur-
rent ASR models, including state-of-the-art systems like Whis-
per, struggle with code-switching speech due to limited labeled
data [2], particularly in Indic languages, where seamless lan-
guage transitions and data scarcity exacerbate the difficulty for
transformer-based architectures.
Recent research has addressed challenges in code-
switching automatic speech recognition (CS-ASR), particularly
data scarcity, through three technical domains: speech [1, 3, 4],
text [5, 6], and modeling [7, 8]. Speech approaches integrate
monolingual data [1] into CS-ASR systems and enhance pro-
nunciation models [9] to handle accents and variations. Text
methods augment code-switching text from monolingual cor-
pora [1] or generating synthetic text [10] to improve language
models. Modeling innovations include Mixture of Experts
(MoE) [7] frameworks with language-specific encoders and de-
coders, and auxiliary tasks like frame-level language identifica-
tion [8].
The whisper large-v2 model [11] is a state-of-the-art multi-
lingual ASR system excelling on mono-lingual speech samples
but struggles with code-mixed ones, often leading to deletions
when a switch to a different language occurs. Recent efforts to
improve its code-mixing capabilities include Zhao et al. [12],
who introduced an encoder refiner with Long Short-Term Mem-
ory (LSTM)/Connectionist Temporal Classification (CTC) ar-
chitectures and language-aware adaptation, reducing MER by
6.3% on the SEAME dataset [13]. However, latency overhead
remains unaddressed. PromptingWhisper [14] achieved a 19%
relative gain using zero-shot prompting, while Yang et al. [15]
enhanced performance by integrating fused language embed-
dings and fine-tuning with code-mixed data, effectively address-
ing Mandarin-English code-switching challenges.
Users have reported challenges in processing code-mixed
speech with Whisper models, which remains an open issue 1.
While speaker diarization and audio segmentation have been
suggested, these methods introduce latency and are impractical
for low-latency applications. Moreover, they fail when a single
speaker switches languages within the same segment. This is-
sue is particularly critical for Indic languages, where highly dy-
namic and spontaneous code-mixing demands further research
and refinement. Most existing work on Whisper adaptation
for code-mixed ASR has focused on the English-Mandarin use
case, with no known studies on Hindi-English adaptation. This
paper explores strategies to leverage Whisper for the under-
resourced Hindi-English CS-ASR task and examines whether
its fine-tuning behavior aligns with Mandarin-English. We pro-
pose methods to address the scarcity of code-mix training data
across domains and and seek answers to the following ques-
tions, structured into two study tracks.
1. Track 1: Fine-tuning with limited in-domain CS Data
• Can a small fraction of in-domain CS data (considering
limited training data availability), combined with mono-
lingual data, improve CS-ASR performance?
• Does on-the-fly code-mix simulation enhance the model’s
ability to capture language switch points?
• Does using language prefixes during training improve
model performance?
2. Track 2: Fine-tuning with Synthetic Data via LLM and TTS
• Can Llama [16] from the meta large language mod-
els (LLMs) family effectively generate domain-specific
code-mixed utterances through few-shot prompting to ad-
equately cover a wide range of CS points matching target
domain, with synthetic code-mixed audio produced using
text-to-speech (TTS) systems?
1https://github.com/openai/whisper/discussions/49
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
4293 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-447

Table 1: Statistics of Hindi-English code-mix data. Words H
and WordsE represents Hindi and English words respectively;
HE represents Hindi-English; EH represents English-Hindi
Set Duration
(hours)
WordsH
(No.)
WordsE
(No.)
Total
Words
No. of
HE CS
No. of
EH CS
Total
CS
T rain 89.8 445,762 160,694 606,456 85761 90802 176,563
T rainsub 15 89,654 32,073 121,727 17032 18049 35,081
T est 5.2 28,215 9,627 37,842 4189 5176 9,365
• Can monolingual and synthetic code-mix audio, in place of
real training data, effectively adapt the model to the target
domain?
Although TTS-generated synthetic data is commonly used to
enhance ASR quality [17], the novelty of Track 2 lies in gener-
ating in-domain synthetic code-mixed data via LLM prompting.
2. Data
This study utilizes the Hindi-English code-mixed dataset from
the Multilingual and Code-Switching ASR Challenge [18],
sourced from spoken tutorials on technical topics, where code-
switching arises predominantly from the lecture content. Ta-
ble 1 outlines the complete training set (T rain), a smaller ran-
domly selected subset (T rainsub) for Track 1 experiments, and
the test set (T est). While no ablation study has been conducted
to determine the sufficiency of in-domain code-mixed data [15],
this research aims to address data scarcity and evaluate the ef-
fectiveness of proposed training strategies.
The dataset allows to grasp the frequency of code-mixing
in spontaneous speech for an Indic language, underscoring the
challenges faced by ASR systems in seamlessly handling lan-
guage transitions at code-switching (CS) points. Specifically,
the test set includes 4,189 Hindi-English and 5,176 English-
Hindi CS bigrams, with unique counts of 2,347 and 2,472, re-
spectively.
In addition to the in-domain data, we incorporated 15 hours
each of Hindi ( T rainH) and English ( T rainE) monolingual
out-of-domain (OOD) data from the Common V oice corpus
[19]. The primary objective of using this OOD data was to eval-
uate whether transformer-based ASR models, such as Whisper,
could benefit from such data, as suggested by prior research
on the legacy hybrid ASR [20]. A secondary objective is to
leverage this monolingual corpus to simulate on-the-fly code-
mixing, as proposed in Track 1.
3. Methodology
As outlined in the introduction, we seek a solution that assumes
minimal or no target training data. In Track 1, we explore
fine-tuning techniques and on-the-fly code-mix simulation us-
ing monolingual data, with or without a small subset of training
data (T rainsub). Track 2 employs LLaMA2 few-shot prompt-
ing to generate target-domain-like synthetic text, followed by
TTS-based voice synthesis. Both pipelines are illustrated in
Fig.1.
3.1. Track 1: On-the-fly code-mix simulation
This work proposes a simple and efficient technique to sim-
ulate code-mixed data from monolingual speech during train-
ing. Since off-the-shelf models often perform poorly due to the
lack of code-mixed data, this approach addresses the issue by
generating synthetic code-mixed samples. Collecting real code-
switch audio with transcriptions is time-consuming and costly;
hence, this method leverages existing monolingual audio for on-
the-fly data augmentation during training as described in algo-
Common-
voice
Hindi
Real
code-mix
train set
Common-
voice
English
|hi| |en||hi|
On-the-fly
Code-mix
Augmentation
LLM Few-shot
Prompting
(Bi-gram generation)
Generated
Hindi-English
Bigrams
LLM Prompting
(Sentence
generation)
Generated Hindi-
English in-domain
synthetic text
Indic parler
TTS
Synthetic
in-domain
code-mix
Train set
Whisper
Trainer
|hi|Track 2
Track 1
Stage 1
Stage 2
Figure 1: Proposed pipeline for Whisper finetuning targeting
code-mix speech. Track 1: On-the-fly code-mixing with lan-
guage specific prompting; Track 2: Synthetic in-domain code-
mix data generation leveraging few shot prompting of LLM
rithm 1. By randomly concatenating audio and transcriptions
with different language tags within each batch, the model was
exposed to diverse code-switch points, improving its robustness
to language changes. Metadata, including language tags, guid-
ing this process, ensured that new audio samples meet duration
and token length constraints for seamless Whisper fine-tuning.
Algorithm 1 Proposed On-the-fly CS simulation for Whisper
1: for batch = 1, 2, . . . do
2: for wav1 = 1 , 2, . . . do
3: if wav1[audio] < 30s then
4: if wav1[lang tag] = en then
5: target lang tag = hi
6: else
7: target lang tag = en
8: end if
9: wav2 = select randomly with target lang tag
10: wav3 = wav1 concat wav2
11: wav3[lang tag] = wav1[lang tag]
12: if wav3[audio] > 30s OR wav 3[label] >
448 Chars then
13: Revert to original, wav 3 = wav1
14: end if
15: P ass wav3 to trainer
16: end if
17: end for
18: end for
3.2. Track 2: Leveraging LLM to generate in-domain syn-
thetic CS data
This track is implemented in two stages: (1) leveraging LLMs
to generate domain-aligned code-mixed text and (2) using TTS
to create in-domain synthetic audio, enhancing ASR’s code-
switching capabilities. We employ Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct, a
4294

state-of-the-art open-source LLM.
3.2.1. Stage 1: Bigram generation & Filtering
As a first stage, we generated code-mix bigrams leveraging
prompt engineering using Llama as shown below:
Role (System): “You’re a helpful mix-bigrams gener-
ator, fluent in both English and Hindi, and that only
prints out the bigrams and no additional comments.”
Role (User): “Generate 10 language mix bigrams in
Hindi-English. Each bigram is a couple of different
words that usually go together and often written this
way: one in Hindi and the other one in English.
Never put just a translation of one word next to
each other. Hindi words should be in Devnagari
and English words should be in Latin. Follow these
examples: pr-t  Et document; b  EnyAdF format-
ting; is spoken. Use these phrases with mixed
language for inspiration. Use different words
for bigrams different from the ones in the text : <
5 sentences a mix of English and Hindi in them > ”
The Llama was repeatedly prompted with batches of five
Hindi-English sentences from the training set using a few-shot
approach to generate domain-specific synthetic code-mix bi-
grams. Generating bigrams instead of full sentences ensured
greater control over the process, allowing for easier quality
checks and the filtering of suboptimal outputs.
Using several thousand in-domain sentences, we generated
44,657 code-mixed bigrams. After removing duplicates, only
5,932 unique bigrams remained (13.3% of the Llama-generated
output). Manual evaluation revealed that some bigrams con-
sisted entirely of English or Hindi words, or included an En-
glish word followed by its Hindi translation (or vice versa). To
address this, we implemented a script that filters out bad bi-
grams to ensure each bigram contained both Hindi and English
characters and used the Llama to verify that paired words were
not direct translations. This refinement resulted in 5,477 valid
bigrams which is 93.3% of the unique set.
3.2.2. Stage 2: Code-mix sentence and audio generation
We again leveraged Llama with following prompt to generate
four sentences for each good bigram generated in last stage:
Role (System) : “You’re a helpful sentence generator,
fluent in both English and Hindi, and that output only
required sentences without any additional comments.”
Role (User): “Generate four sentences that would use
this bigram in Hindi-English in a natural way. Make 2
sentences with English as the main language and 2 sen-
tences with Hindi as the main language. Word bigram
to use: < bigram > ”
This process generated approximately 16,000 unique syn-
thetic sentences. While generating four sentences per bigram
would theoretically yield 21,908 sentences (5,477 × 4), man-
ual review identified instances where the LLM deviated from
the requested number of sentences, reducing the total for cer-
tain bigrams. Nevertheless, the dataset should be adequate for
evaluating the effectiveness of this approach in enhancing per-
formance through fine-tuning. Parler-TTS 2 was used to gen-
erate code-mixed audio with one Indian male and one Indian
female voice, creating two synthetic training sets: T rainT 1 (8
hours) and T rainT 2 (22 hours), where T rainT 1 is a subset of
T rainT 2.
Note to readers: This pipeline employs in-domain training
examples as few-shot prompts for the LLM, though handcrafted
text or domain-specific web-crawled data can serve as alterna-
tives. The proposed framework is adaptable, enabling fully au-
tomated synthetic data generation for specific use cases.
4. Experiments
All experiments utilized the Whisper-large-v2 multilingual
model, a Transformer-based encoder-decoder with 1.54 bil-
lion parameters, employing a sequence-to-sequence approach
on log-Mel spectrograms. The model processes up to 30 sec-
ond audio segments, with chunking for longer inputs. Training
was conducted on two H100 GPUs (80GB VRAM each) with a
batch size of 64 and gradient accumulation of 1. Optimization
used AdamW with a peak learning rate of 2e-5, a maximum of
5k update steps, and mixed-precision training.
A four-hour subset is randomly reserved from the train set
as a development set to monitor training performance on each
checkpoint. Models were trained sequentially, with perfor-
mance evaluations guiding subsequent training to achieve im-
proved results. Ultimately, we present eleven models3, as sum-
marized in Table 2. To establish a baseline, we initially fine-
tuned two Whisper large-v2 models (LB1 and LB2) using the
complete in-domain training dataset (Table 1) with language
tokens < |en| > and < |hi| >, respectively, following the
methodology in [15].
For Track 1, we report four models:
• M1 and M2: Trained with < |hi| > as the language prompt,
without and with on-the-fly code-mix simulation, respec-
tively, using the monolingual data pool.
• M3: Trained with the monolingual data pool augmented by a
small subset of in-domain training data (T rainsub). Trained
with < |hi| > as the language prompt with on-the-fly code-
mix activated.
• M4: Trained with on-the-fly code-mix activated using
language-specific prompts: < |en| > for English mono-
lingual and synthetic English-Hindi code-mixed speech,
< |hi| > for Hindi monolingual and synthetic English-
Hindi code-mixed speech, while all real code-mixed speech
(T rainsub) used < |hi| >.
• M5: The fine-tuning strategy mirrored that of M4, with the
exception that the entire in-domain CS dataset was utilized
rather than a limited subset. This approach represents an ideal
scenario, leveraging the complete available real training data.
In Track 2, the real in-domain training set was left unal-
tered, and three models were trained: M6 with T rainT 1, M7
with T rainT 2, and M8 adding monolingual speech dataset. M8
was specifically trained to investigate whether OOD monolin-
gual data could enhance a model previously fine-tuned with
synthetic in-domain audio. Building on insights from Tracks
1 and 2, we fine-tuned a combined model (M9) incorporating
on-the-fly code-switching to leverage the advantages of both ap-
proaches.
2https://huggingface.co/ai4bharat/
indic-parler-tts
3Additional models with varying language prompts were tested, but
only relevant results are reported.
4295

Table 2: Summary of model configurations fine-tuned with MER (%, lower better) and CBA (%, higher better) on T est set.
Model Training data Description MER(%) ↓ CBA(%)↑
Mono-lingual code-mix HE EH
Large-V2 NA NA SOTA pre-trained Whisper model 52.0 42.9 36.8
LB1 (Baseline) NA T rain Lower bound using Language prompt <en> 44.7 57.4 56.0
LB2 (Baseline) NA Lower bound using Language prompt <hi> 37.4 64.1 66.4
M1 (Track 1) T rainH,
T rainE
NA Mono-lingual data using Language prompt <hi> 56.8 29.3 29.7
M2 (Track 1) Mono-lingual data using Language prompt <hi>; on-the-fly CS activated 54.6 32.0 32.9
M3 (Track 1) T rainH ,
T rainE
T rainSub
Mono-lingual data using Language prompt <hi>; on-the-fly CS activated 45.6 53.6 53.7
M4 (Track 1) Mono-lingual data using Language specific prompt; on-the-fly CS activated
’en’ for English and English-Hindi, ’hi’ for Hindi, and Hindi-English 39.0 58.9 57.7
M5 (Track 1) T rainH ,
T rainE
T rain Same as M4, but utilized all in-domain train set 28.8 76.1 75.3
M6 (Track 2) NA T rainT 1 In-domain CS synthetic data, Language prompt <hi> 48.2 45.5 45.3
M7 (Track 2) T rainT 2 40.8 52.3 55.4
M8 (Track 2) T rainH ,
T rainE
T rainT 2
In-domain CS synthetic data and mono-lingual data, Language prompt <hi> 39.2 55.4 56.5
M9 (Track 1+2) In-domain CS synthetic data and mono-lingual data using language specific prompt;
on-the-fly CS activated 35.9 60.0 60.2
5. Result & Discussions
Model performance was evaluated on the T est set, with Mixed
Language Word Error Rate (MER) [21] reported in Table 2.
Decoding utilized WhisperX [22] with the ”None” option for
language detection during inference. To assess Hindi-English
code-switched ASR performance, we analyze system accu-
racy at code-switch points using Code-Switch Bigram Accuracy
(CBA), which measures correctly recognized bigrams at switch
points relative to their total count in the test set. Table 2 presents
CBA scores to compare model performance on code-switching.
The results indicate that while the pretrained large-v2
model is state-of-the-art (SOTA) multi-lingual model, it strug-
gles with seamless Hindi-English code-mixing and MER is on
higher side. The lower-bound baselines (LB1 and LB2), trained
on the in-domain dataset, achieved 14% and 28.1% error re-
ductions, respectively, over the pretrained model. These serve
as lower-bound references, as the full T rain set was used
to fine-tune Whisper. Furthermore, the CBA for both Hindi-
English (HE) and English-Hindi (EH) scenarios showed sub-
stantial improvement. As demonstrated by [15] on Mandarin-
English CS speech, while prompting strategies yield varied
performances before adaptation, finetuning the Whisper model
with code-switching speech data leads to uniformly enhanced
performance, simplifying code-switching complexities. Inter-
estingly, in our Hindi-English use case, the < |hi| > language
prompt outperformed < |en| >, highlighting the critical role
of language prompts in Whisper fine-tuning. This suggests that
language prompts must be carefully considered, as their effec-
tiveness may vary across use cases.
As expected, M1, trained on OOD monolingual Hindi and
English data, shows no improvement and exhibits an 9.2% rel-
ative regression compared to the pretrained model. With on-
the-fly code-mixing activated, M2 demonstrated a 3.7% rela-
tive improvement over M1, supported by a 9% and 10.8% rel-
ative gain in CBA across EH and HE CS points, respectively.
Models M3 and M4, fine-tuned with a subset of in-domain data
(T rainsub) and on-the-fly code-mixing, show significant gains,
with M4 achieving a 25% relative improvement over the pre-
trained model and notable CBA enhancements using language-
specific prompts. While M4 does not surpass the baseline LB2,
its results are comparable, demonstrating the efficacy of com-
bining limited in-domain data (one-sixth of T rain) with OOD
monolingual data. M5, trained on the full in-domain dataset
(considered an ideal condition) using the same strategy as M4,
significantly outperforms baseline LB2 by 23% relative, estab-
lishing the efficacy of this approach. As expected, M5 achieves
the best performance in the table 2, having been fine-tuned on
the entire in-domain training set.
Focusing on Track 2 models (M6, M7), we observe im-
provements in MER and CBA with synthetic data. Model M6,
trained on 8 hours of synthetic data (T rainT 1), achieves a 7.3%
relative MER improvement over the pretrained, and adding
14 more hours (M7) yields a further 15.3% relative improve-
ment. Model M8, utilizing out-of-domain (OOD) monolingual
and synthetic data, achieves a 3.9% relative improvement over
M7. Enhancements in the CBA metric at code-switching points
highlight the benefits of OOD monolingual data. Finally, M9,
combining Track 1 and Track 2 strategies, shows a significant
8.4% relative improvement over M8. These results demonstrate
that even without in-domain original training data, synthetic and
OOD monolingual data enhance robustness, particularly when
language-specific prompts and on-the-fly code-mixing are em-
ployed. The latter likely enables better learning of code-switch
points during fine-tuning, improving performance under seam-
less code-mixinging. Both, track 1 and 2 demonstrates that on-
the-fly code-mixing is most effective when supplemented with
a some amount of in-domain real or synthetic data.
6. Conclusion & Future Work
In this paper, we proposed two techniques to handle seamless
code-mixing, particularly in the Indian multilingual context.
Our experiments demonstrate that both pipelines effectively
outperform the baseline, achieving a 31% relative improvement
over the pretrained model without using real in-domain data for
Whisper fine-tuning. Leveraging language-specific prompting
with on-the-fly code-mixing and few-shot prompting of LLMs
for in-domain synthetic data generation significantly enhances
performance in low-resource code-switching scenarios. While
tested on Whisper large-v2 for Hindi-English tutorial speech,
the approach is adaptable to other speech toolkits, domains,
and other Whisper model variants. Both proposed approaches
are straightforward, adaptable, and easily customizable. Ad-
ditionally, the synthetic data generation pipeline and prompts
can be further refined to enhance synthetic data quality. Future
work could explore ablation studies to quantify the impact of
synthetic data and refine on-the-fly code-mixing techniques by
incorporating more controlled conditions, such as background
similarity, speaker alignment if possible, and multiple synthetic
switches per training example.
4296

7. Acknowledgment
We would like to express our sincere gratitude to the leader-
ship team—Sujith, Dan, Serge, and Nathan—for their invalu-
able guidance, support, feedback and encouragement through-
out this research. We also extend our appreciation to Oracle for
providing the resources and infrastructure that made this study
possible.
8. References
[1] A. Biswas, E. Yılmaz, E. van der Westhuizen, F. de Wet, and
T. Niesler, “Code-switched automatic speech recognition in five
south african languages,” Computer Speech & Language, vol. 71,
p. 101262, 2022.
[2] A. Kulkarni, A. Kulkarni, M. Couceiro, and H. Aldarmaki,
“Adapting the adapters for code-switching in multilingual ASR,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.07423, 2023.
[3] X. Yue, G. Lee, E. Yılmaz, F. Deng, and H. Li, “End-to-end code-
switching asr for low-resourced language pairs,” in Proceedings
of ASRU. IEEE, 2019, pp. 972–979.
[4] T. Verma, A. Shree, and A. Modi, “Asr for low resource and mul-
tilingual noisy code-mixed speech,” Proceedings of Interspeech,
2023.
[5] Y . Li and P. Fung, “Code-switch language model with inversion
constraints for mixed language speech recognition,” in Proceed-
ings of COLING, 2012, pp. 1671–1680.
[6] J. J. van V ¨uren and T. Niesler, “Improving under-resourced code-
switched speech recognition: Large pre-trained models or archi-
tectural interventions,” Proceedings of the Interspeech, Dublin,
Ireland, pp. 20–24, 2023.
[7] Y . Lu, M. Huang, H. Li, J. Guo, and Y . Qian, “Bi-encoder
transformer network for mandarin-english code-switching speech
recognition using mixture of experts.” in Proceedings of Inter-
speech, 2020, pp. 4766–4770.
[8] H. Liu, H. Xu, L. P. Garcia, A. W. Khong, Y . He, and S. Khu-
danpur, “Reducing language confusion for code-switching speech
recognition with token-level language diarization,” in Proceed-
ings of ICASSP. IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–5.
[9] Y . Long, S. Wei, J. Lian, and Y . Li, “Pronunciation augmen-
tation for mandarin-english code-switching speech recognition,”
EURASIP Journal on Audio, Speech, and Music Processing , vol.
2021, no. 1, p. 34, 2021.
[10] Y . Gao, J. Feng, Y . Liu, L. Hou, X. Pan, and Y . Ma, “Code-
switching sentence generation by bert and generative adversarial
networks.” in Proceedings of Interspeech, 2019, pp. 3525–3529.
[11] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak su-
pervision,” in Proceedings of ICML. PMLR, 2023, pp. 28 492–
28 518.
[12] J. Zhao, H. Shi, C. Cui, T. Wang, H. Liu, Z. Ni, L. Ye, and
L. Wang, “Adapting Whisper for Code-Switching through En-
coding Refining and Language-Aware Decoding,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.16507, 2024.
[13] D.-C. Lyu, T. P. Tan, E. Chng, and H. Li, “SEAME: a Mandarin-
English code-switching speech corpus in south-east asia.” in Pro-
ceedings of Interspeech, vol. 10, 2010, pp. 1986–1989.
[14] P. Peng, B. Yan, S. Watanabe, and D. Harwath, “Prompting the
Hidden Talent of Web-Scale Speech Models for Zero-Shot Task
Generalization,” in Proceedings of Interspeech, 2023.
[15] Y . Yang, Y . Peng, X. Zhong, H. Huang, and E. S. Chng,
“Adapting OpenAI’s Whisper for Speech Recognition on Code-
Switch Mandarin-English SEAME and ASRU2019 Datasets,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.17382, 2023.
[16] A. Dubey, A. Jauhri, A. Pandey, A. Kadian, A. Al-Dahle, A. Let-
man, A. Mathur, A. Schelten, A. Yang, A. Fan et al., “The llama
3 herd of models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.21783, 2024.
[17] C.-T. Do, S. Imai, R. Doddipatla, and T. Hain, “Improving ac-
cented speech recognition using data augmentation based on
unsupervised text-to-speech synthesis,” in Proceedings of EU-
SIPCO. IEEE, 2024, pp. 136–140.
[18] A. Diwan, R. Vaideeswaran, S. Shah, A. Singh, S. Raghavan,
S. Khare, V . Unni, S. Vyas, A. Rajpuria, C. Yarraet al., “Multilin-
gual and code-switching ASR challenges for low resource indian
languages,” in Proceedings of Interspeech, 2021, p. 2446–2450.
[19] R. Ardila, M. Branson, K. Davis, M. Henretty, M. Kohler,
J. Meyer, R. Morais, L. Saunders, F. M. Tyers, and G. Weber,
“Common voice: A massively-multilingual speech corpus,”arXiv
preprint arXiv:1912.06670, 2019.
[20] A. Biswas, E. van der Westhuizen, T. Niesler, and F. de Wet,
“Improving asr for code-switched speech in under-resourced lan-
guages using out-of-domain data,” inProceedings of SLTU, 2018,
pp. 122–126.
[21] S. Zhang, J. Yi, Z. Tian, J. Tao, Y . T. Yeung, and L. Deng,
“Reducing multilingual context confusion for end-to-end code-
switching automatic speech recognition,” in Proceedings of In-
terspeech, 2022, pp. 3894–3898.
[22] M. Bain, J. Huh, T. Han, and A. Zisserman, “WhisperX: Time-
accurate speech transcription of long-form audio,” inProceedings
of Interspeech, 2023, pp. 4489–4493.
4297
