Hear Me Out: Interactive evaluation and bias discovery platform for
speech-to-speech conversational AI
Shree Harsha Bokkahalli Satish, Gustav Eje Henter , Éva Székely
Department of Speech, Music and Hearing, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden
shbs@kth.se, ghe@kth.se, szekely@kth.se
Abstract
A new wave of speech foundation models is emerging, capa-
ble of processing spoken language directly from audio. These
models promise more expressive and emotionally aware inter-
actions by retaining prosodic information throughout conversa-
tions. ‘Hear Me Out’ evaluates their ability to preserve cru-
cial vocal cues, enabling users to explore how variations in
speaker characteristics and paralinguistic features influence AI
responses. Through real-time voice conversion, users can ask
a question and then re-ask it with a modified one, immediately
observing differences in response tone, phrasing, and behavior.
The system presents paired responses side by side, offering di-
rect comparisons of AI interpretations of both the original and
transformed voices, thereby highlighting potential biases. By
creating inquiry into speaker modeling, contextual understand-
ing, and fairness, this immersive experience encourages users
to reflect on identity, voice, and also promote inclusive future
research.
Index Terms: speech-to-speech conversational AI, voice con-
version, bias in conversational AI
1. Introduction
Speech foundation models (speechFMs, from now on), some-
times called audio foundation models or speechLMs or speech-
LLMs, claim to overcome the limitations of the conven-
tional Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) + Large Language
Model (LLM) + Text-to-Speech(TTS) methodology of build-
ing speech-to-speech conversational AI systems. These systems
can supposedly understand, respond to, and utilize prosodic
cues in two broad domains: paralinguistic (tone, stresses and
non-speech vocalizations etc.) and extralinguistic (age, gender
and other demographics) when generating a response to the in-
put prompt. This information is lost during the transition phases
of the conventional methodology [1].
SpeechFMs take in raw audio (sometimes alongside tex-
tual prompts) and produce encodings using a speech tokenizer,
which are then modeled auto-regressively using a language
model. The output tokens are then sent to a vocoder which
generates speech output. The encodings allow them to capture
prosodic information described above and also generate appro-
priate prosodic speech in response. Evaluating these models in
terms of bias, performance and fairness is an important and in-
teresting challenge.
Several benchmarks have recently emerged for evaluating
speech-to-speech conversational AI systems, each represent-
ing a valuable step forward: The Spoken StereoSet dataset
by Lin et al. [2], was designed to specifically examine social
biases, focusing on responses to speech from diverse demo-
graphic groups, although its analysis was constrained to individ-
ual dimensions of age and gender without focusing on the whole
picture. The V oxDialogue benchmark [3] established a bench-
marking framework for assessing performance across twelve
attributes, yet, like the others, it treated these as independent
metrics, ultimately limiting our understanding of speechFMs
capabilities. Finally, V oxEval [4] presented a speech-based
MMLU benchmark, acknowledging the potential for bias and
harmful content within speechFMs, “...these aspects fall outside
the scope of V oxEval and require separate evaluation frame-
works...".
Collectively, these benchmarks reveal two key limitations:
either a tendency to evaluate individual attributes without con-
sidering their interconnectedness or not focusing on gender, age
or accent distributions in the data enough. Addressing the nu-
anced nature of bias and performance is important as more and
more speechFMs are released everyday. In the next section,
we introduce ‘Hear Me Out’ as a complementary tool that pro-
vides an immersive, interactive experience, allowing users to
rapidly compare different models, and also experience speaker-
dependent responses first hand, by converting their own voice.
We hope that this will help researchers ask new questions about
what matters in terms of performance and bias.
2. System components
In this section, we present the building blocks of ‘Hear Me
Out’. It consists of four components, which can be seen in
Figure 1. The ‘Hear Me Out’ platform will be made available
at this webpage: https://shreeharsha-bs.github.
io/Hear-Me-Out/
2.1. Speech foundation model options
The speechFM block allows users to select from a diverse range
of models. Models are deployed either via a serving platform
or run locally if they are quantized and/or require reduced GPU
memory. The user’s speech prompt, potentially modified as part
of the input process, is then provided as input to the selected
model, and the generated response is received. This response is
then sent to the other relevant components in the system.
2.2. V oice conversion
V oice conversion allows the altering of speaker characteristics.
In ‘Hear Me Out’, this allows users to explore how the conver-
sational AI’s responses might differ based on perceived speaker
characteristics. Real-time voice conversion is a crucial com-
ponent in the demo, allowing immediate feedback and an im-
mersive experience of potentially biased speaker-dependent re-
sponses. Users can toggle between different voice profiles, sim-
ulating scenarios where the same question is asked by individu-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2151

Figure 1: A block diagram of ‘Hear Me Out’ showing the system components, input speech prompts and output metrics
als of different genders, age, accents etc.
2.3. Automated metrics
Along with presenting the model responses, we also present a
few automated metrics to get a quantitative and qualitative eval-
uation of the response as a complement to immediate perceptual
judgments:
1. Speech Rate and/or Articulation Rate in syllables per sec-
ond (syl/s).
2. Sentiment and automatic audio quality assessment : We
use AudioFlamingo21 for sentiment analysis and Audiobox-
Aesthetics2 to generate a multi-dimensional audio quality
profile. The resulting metrics, such as content usefulness,
content enjoyment, production quality, and production com-
plexity are displayed in the radar plot in Figure 2.
3. Mean Pitch(f0) of the response .
4. S tandard Deviation (S.D.) of Pitch (f0).
5. Semantic Textual Similarity score between the responses:
This provides a content-level evaluation of how consistent
the AI’s semantic intent is across transformed inputs, com-
plementing sentiment analysis as a measure of content ap-
propriateness and coherence.
Figure 2: Example of automated metrics generated and the in-
put and output prompts on the ‘Hear Me Out’ UI
1https://github.com/NVIDIA/audio-flamingo
2https://github.com/facebookresearch/
audiobox-aesthetics
2.4. ‘Hear Me Out’ interactive UI
The interactive UI is at the heart of the experiential approach
to understanding conversational AI behavior across identities.
This is different from conventional benchmarking tools. By
providing comparisons of the original and transformed voice in-
puts, along with the responses from the model, users can view
conversational AI systems from a different empathetic perspec-
tive rather than a sympathetic one. The comparison also helps
firmly affirm or deny subjective user experiences.
3. Conclusion
We introduced ‘Hear Me Out’, which offers an interactive and
accessible way to explore the impact of different speaker char-
acteristics on conversational AI systems. By providing a hands-
on experience, it invites users to examine model behavior and
identify potential biases. Future iterations can include integrat-
ing additional evaluation metrics for bias and conducting large-
scale studies to obtain reliable metrics on conversational AI sys-
tems related to speaker characteristics. Ultimately, we hope that
‘Hear Me Out’ will contribute to the development of fairer and
more inclusive conversational AI systems.
4. Acknowledgments
This work was partially supported by the Wallenberg AI, Au-
tonomous Systems and Software Program (W ASP) funded by
the Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation.
5. References
[1] W. Cui, D. Yu, X. Jiao, Z. Meng, G. Zhang, Q. Wang, Y . Guo,
and I. King, “Recent Advances in Speech Language Models: A
Survey,” Feb. 2025, arXiv:2410.03751 [cs].
[2] Y .-C. Lin, W.-C. Chen, and H.-Y . Lee, “Spoken Stereoset: on
Evaluating Social Bias Toward Speaker in Speech Large Language
Models,” in 2024 IEEE Spoken Language Technology Workshop
(SLT), Dec. 2024, pp. 871–878.
[3] X. Cheng, R. Hu, X. Yang, J. Lu, D. Fu, Z. Wang, S. Ji,
R. Huang, B. Zhang, T. Jin, and Z. Zhao, “V oxDialogue:
Can Spoken Dialogue Systems Understand Information Beyond
Words?” Oct. 2024. [Online]. Available: https://openreview.net/
pdf?id=vbmSSIhKAM
[4] W. Cui, X. Jiao, Z. Meng, and I. King, “V oxEval: Benchmarking
the Knowledge Understanding Capabilities of End-to-End Spoken
Language Models,” Feb. 2025, arXiv:2501.04962 [cs].
2152
