Benchmarking Time-localized Explanations for Audio Classification Models
Cecilia Bola˜nos1,2, Leonardo Pepino1,2, Martin Meza1,2, Luciana Ferrer1
1Departamento de Computaci´on, FCEyN, UBA, Argentina
2Instituto de Investigaci´on en Ciencias de la Computaci´on (ICC), CONICET-UBA, Argentina
cbolanos@dc.uba.ar, lpepino@dc.uba.ar, mmeza@dc.uba.ar, lferrer@dc.uba.ar
Abstract
Most modern approaches for audio processing are opaque, in
the sense that they do not provide an explanation for their de-
cisions. For this reason, various methods have been proposed
to explain the outputs generated by these models. Good expla-
nations can result in interesting insights about the data or the
model, as well as increase trust in the system. Unfortunately,
evaluating the quality of explanations is far from trivial since,
for most tasks, there is no clear ground truth explanation to use
as reference. In this work, we propose a benchmark for time-
localized explanations for audio classification models that uses
time annotations of target events as a proxy for ground truth ex-
planations. We use this benchmark to systematically optimize
and compare various approaches for model-agnostic post-hoc
explanation, obtaining, in some cases, close to perfect explana-
tions. Finally, we illustrate the utility of the explanations for
uncovering spurious correlations.
Index Terms: explainability, model-agnostic post-hoc explana-
tions, benchmark, spurious correlations, audio models
1. Introduction
Explaining a machine learning model’s decisions can help im-
prove the users’ trust in the system by providing an under-
standing of the patterns that led to them [1]. Further, expla-
nations may provide interesting insights about the task or un-
cover hidden biases or spurious correlations [2]. Explainabil-
ity is particularly important in high-stakes applications such
as disease detection, speaker verification, or emotion recog-
nition [3, 4, 5]. In machine learning, post-hoc explainability
methods aim to interpret the output of opaque models after
they are trained. These techniques are categorized into model-
specific and model-agnostic methods [6]. Model-specific meth-
ods leverage internal details of the model’s architecture, such
as gradients in deep neural networks or attention mechanisms
in transformers [7, 8, 9]. These methods are tightly coupled
with the model’s design and cannot be applied to other types
of models.
In contrast, model-agnostic methods do not as-
sume any specific architectural properties of the model and treat
it as a black box, relying solely on input-output interactions
[10, 11, 12]. In audio, black-box explainability methods rely
on the adaptation of general frameworks like LIME [10] and
KernelSHAP [11], using a common approach. First, perturba-
tions of the input sample are generated and the model is run on
each of them. Then, the perturbation patterns and the model
outputs are used to calculate the importance of specific features
or segments in the signal. For instance, SLIME [13] applies
LIME on audio tasks by dividing the signal into temporal, spec-
tral, or time-frequency blocks for perturbation.
AudioLIME
[14] extends this approach by incorporating source separation
Create 
Masks
Duration
Perturb
Model
Scores
Masks
Explain
Figure 1: Procedure to produce explanations for a given black
box model and input signal. First, a set of masks are created.
Then, each mask is used to create a perturbed version of the
input signal, which is fed into the model. The resulting scores,
together with the corresponding masks, are used to estimate the
impact of masking each segment of the input signal.
to decompose a music track into stems like vocals and drums
before perturbation. Finally, TimeSHAP [15] builds upon Ker-
nelSHAP to handle sequential data. Evaluating explanation ap-
proaches is a difficult task since it is generally not possible to
obtain ground truth explanations. In the works described above,
evaluation is done through qualitative inspection [13, 15] or by
measuring the impact of the most important components iden-
tified by the explanation on the model’s output. The latter ap-
proach uses a set of metrics, often referred to as faithfulness
(FF), which assess the effect of removing or incorporating these
components [16, 17, 18, 19]. FF metrics, though, have been
shown to be poor assessors of explanation quality since they
can reward explanations that rely on suppressor variables rather
than informative ones [20, 21].
In this work, we study methods that provide time-localized
explanations for black-box audio models and propose a bench-
mark for evaluating the explanations consisting of tasks where
the goal is to detect or count the occurrences of a particular
event. We use real and synthetic datasets where the location of
the events of interest is known. These annotations are used as a
proxy ground truth for the explanations, assuming that the im-
portant segments should be strictly contained within the regions
where the target events occur. We use this benchmark to opti-
mize and compare various approaches. Furthermore, we illus-
trate the practical utility of these methods to uncover spurious
correlations in audio datasets.
2. Methods
In this study, we evaluate black-box explainability methods for
audio models. In particular, we focus on time-level explana-
tions, i.e., those capable of identifying the segments within
an audio clip that explain a model’s prediction, as opposed to
feature-level explanations that aim to identify the audio charac-
teristics that are important for the model. To evaluate the ex-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
211
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-288

planations, we would like to have a ground truth annotation for
each signal that identifies the parts of that signal that are im-
portant for prediction. Unfortunately, such ground truth is often
hard to annotate. While humans are able to provide labels for
most audio classification tasks with varying degrees of agree-
ment depending on the task, it may be much harder to reliably
pinpoint the exact temporal regions that explain their decision.
To complicate matters more, the ground truth may be model-
dependent since different models may focus on different regions
of a signal to make their decisions.
To work around the need to annotate ground truth explana-
tions, in this work we propose to benchmark explanations on
event detection and counting tasks where the location of the
events of interest is known. We then use those locations as a
proxy for the ground truth explanation, assuming that the im-
portant information for the models is only present within those
regions and that no part of them is unimportant. While the first
assumption is reasonable for our selected tasks, the second one
is unlikely to hold. As we will see, though, our results sug-
gest that an inaccuracy of this kind in the ground truth does not
change the ranking of systems, validating the value of the metric
for development purposes.
2.1. Time-localized explanations for audio models
A general strategy for producing temporal explanations for
black-box audio models consists of three basic steps: (1) cre-
ating several perturbed versions of the sample for which the ex-
planation is required, by masking chunks of the audio, (2) run-
ning the black-box model on each perturbed sample to generate
scores, and (3) training a surrogate model on the perturbations
and their corresponding scores to estimate the importance of
each segment. This process is illustrated in Figure 1. The com-
putation requirements for obtaining an explanation for a given
sample and model are approximately the same as running in-
ference N times, where N is the number of perturbed versions
of the sample we use to train the surrogate model. In general,
the training of the surrogate model takes a negligible amount of
time.
In our implementation, the audio signals are first segmented
into 100 ms segments and the signals are perturbed as follows:
1. Initialize a binary mask vector v ∈{0, 1}M, where M is the
number of segments in the signal, with all ones.
2. While the number of masked segments (the number of 0s in
v) is less than T = ⌈M × p⌉, where p is the fraction of the
waveform to perturb:
a. Select a random starting position si between 0 and M.
b. Mask a contiguous block of d segments starting at si:
v[si : min(si + d, M)] ←0.
c. Exclude si from future selection as starting position.
3. Replace all segments where the mask v is set to 0 with zeros
or with gaussian noise with mean equal to the mean of the
original signal and a standard deviation sampled uniformly
between 0.1 and 1.0 times the average standard deviation of
the signals in the dataset.
4. Finally, ground truth labels are assigned to each segment. If
the overlap between the segment and the annotated region is
larger than 90 ms, that segment is labeled with a 1, if there
is no overlap, it is labeled with a 0, otherwise, the segment is
ignored for performance evaluation.
Given an audio signal for which the explanation is required,
a set of N perturbed signals is created with this algorithm, vary-
ing the p and d values. Each of these perturbed signals is run
through the black-box model f and a score is computed as the
log-odds log(Pc/(1 −Pc)), where Pc is the posterior proba-
bility produced by the model for class c, the class detected by
the model when fed with the original signal. The final product
of this process is a dataset consisting of N mask vectors v and
corresponding scores (see Figure 1).
Finally, a surrogate model g is trained using this data to
minimize the discrepancy between its outputs and the scores
obtained from the black-box model, taking the mask vectors as
input features. This is achieved by solving the following opti-
mization problem [10]:
ξ = arg min
g∈G L(f, g, π) + Ω(g),
(1)
where G is the space of surrogate models under consideration,
Ω(g) is a regularization term, and π is a weighting function.
Variations in the choice of L, G, Ω, π and the way to per-
turb an instance give rise to different explainers found in the
literature. When g is a linear model, Ωis some norm of that
model’s weights, π is a kernel function applied over the dis-
tance between the perturbed and the original samples, the loss is
weighted mean squared error, and the masking is done with ze-
ros, the method becomes a variant of LIME, as used in [13, 14].
When, instead, g is a Random Forest and the masking is done
with noise, the approach resembles that in [22]. We refer to
these approaches as LR and RF and explore both types of
masks for both modeling approaches.
When, instead, π is obtained as function of the number of
zeros in v, and G is restricted to linear models where the in-
tercept must be f(∅) (the model’s output when v is all zeros)
and the sum of the weights must equal the model’s score for
the original signal, the method is called Kernel SHAP [11]. We
refer to this approach as SHAP. This method was applied to
audio signals in [15] where they use a structured perturbation
approach, replacing feature values with their average values.
The final step to produce the explanations is to use the sur-
rogate model to estimate the importance of each segment in the
signal. The way to obtain the importance of each feature and,
hence, each segment, depends on the choice of G. For linear
models as LR and SHAP, the weights directly reflect the impor-
tance of each feature. For RF, the importances can be estimated
as the normalized total reduction of the Gini criterion brought
by each feature. In this work, the quality of these explanation
for each signal is assessed using the area under the ROC curve
(AUC) with respect to the labels obtained as described above.
The final performance metric is obtained as the average AUC
across signals.
2.2. Benchmark Datasets and Models
In this section we describe the datasets and classification mod-
els for which explanations will be produced and evaluated. The
main guideline for selecting datasets is that they should al-
low for an audio classification task and that the location of the
events corresponding to the classes should be available. All the
datasets described below are available in the paper’s website.1
The KWS dataset consists of samples extracted from the
Librispeech dataset [23]. The classification task is to detect the
word ”little”, one of the most frequent content words in this
dataset. As the black-box classification model, we trained a
deep neural network using features extracted from wav2vec 2.0
base. Activations from the wav2vec 2.0 CNN encoder output
and the 12 transformer blocks are extracted and combined by
1https://sites.google.com/view/time-localizedexplanations/
212

learning a weighted average. Finally, a mean pooling over time
is performed and the resulting vector serves as input to a multi-
layer perceptron (MLP) with 128 hidden neuron, which predicts
the probability that the word “little” is present in the audio. The
model is trained with 500 utterances that include the target word
and 500 utterances that do not include it, extracted from the 100
hours clean training set of Librispeech. We used all the utter-
ances that include the target word in the dev-clean and test-clean
sets, and the same number of utterances that did not include this
word, to select the best epoch and test the model, respectively.
The trained model achieved a 82% accuracy in this keyword
spotting task. The ground truth annotations were obtained with
the Montreal Forced Aligner [24, 25].
We also use a subset of the AudioSet Temporally-Strong
Labels dataset [26], which provides precise temporal annota-
tions of sound events, performed by human annotators. From
this data, we select three frequent events: Speech, Music, and
Dog sounds. As detection model, we use the Audio Spectro-
gram Transformer (AST) [27], a transformer-based model fine-
tuned on AudioSet, which has a binary output for each of 527
possible events. We only use the outputs corresponding to the
three selected event types.
Further, we generated a synthetic dataset by concatenating
Drum sounds obtained from [28]. We randomly generated 6000
sequences of 10 drum hits from 4 different types: kick, snare,
toms or cymbals. Samples contain between 0 and 5 kicks, in-
cluding 1000 samples per case. The placement of the kicks
within each sequence is randomly selected and the chosen po-
sitions are used to determine the ground truth annotations. The
model is similar to the one used for KWS, but an LSTM with
256 units is added before the MLP. The model is trained to pre-
dict the number of kicks in the waveform, using 4000 samples
as training set, and 1000 samples for validation and testing. The
resulting model achieves a 97% accuracy.
The drum hits that were concatenated to create the audio
samples for the Drums dataset contain most of the energy in the
onset, when the instrument is hit, and then the energy decays
fast with time. Hence, the ground truth annotations for the kick
locations include regions that are almost silent and may be ir-
relevant for classification. A similar observation can be made
for audioset annotations, though in that case we cannot reliably
assume that the important part is always at the beginning of the
annotation. In Section 3.2, we analyze the impact of this issue
on the explanation metric.
2.3. An application: Clever-Hans effect detection
Clever-Hans effect, in the context of machine learning, occurs
when a model’s decisions are based on information that cor-
relates in a spurious way with the actual information of inter-
est. These kinds of spurious correlations have been shown to
occur in real-world datasets [29, 30, 31, 32, 33]. Explanation
approaches can help pinpoint such issues. To test whether the
models developed in this work can be used for this purpose, we
generated a modified version of the IEMOCAP dataset [34] by
adding coughs only to the utterances belonging to the “happy”
class. A model trained on this corrupted dataset will likely rely
on detecting the presence of cough to predict the “happy” class.
For the utterances annotated as “happy”, we randomly sampled
one of 40 coughs from the ESC50 dataset [35], normalized them
and deleted the silences based on energy levels, before summing
them in a random location of an IEMOCAP utterance.
We trained our model using sessions 1 through 4 and used
the fifth session as test set. We did not perform hyperparameter
RF
LR SHAP
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
Average AUC
Drums
noise
zero
RF
LR SHAP
KWS
RF
LR SHAP
Music
RF
LR SHAP
Speech
RF
LR SHAP
Dog
Figure 2: Average AUC for the datasets in our benchmark for
different explanation approaches. The whiskers correspond to
the 95% confidence interval obtained by bootstrapping the test
samples [36].
tuning so no validation set was needed. Our model is the same
as the one used for KWS except that the output layer contains 4
output nodes, one per emotion: happy, angry, sad, and neutral.
Training with the original signals yielded an AUC of 0.761 for
“happy”, which rose to 0.943 after adding coughs—inducing a
Clever-Hans effect we aim to reveal with an explainer model.
3. Results and Discussion
In this section we first show results for the various tasks in our
dataset comparing different explainability approaches. We then
explore the effect of inaccurate ground truth annotations and
illustrate the use of explainability models for the detection of
spurious correlations.
3.1. Benchmarking explainability approaches
Figure 2 shows the results for three surrogate models, RF, LR
and SHAP as described in Section 2. In our preliminary ex-
periments, we found that the kernel weighting function and the
regularization term did not have an impact in the LR results, so
here we only show results for standard linear regression. Fur-
ther, for SHAP we found that the constraint that the bias term
should coincide with the model’s output for a fully-masked sig-
nal significantly degraded results. Hence, in our runs, we elim-
inated this constraint. For each type of surrogate model, we
show results using zeros or gaussian noise for masking.
The perturbed signals are obtained by setting d, the size of
each masking window in segments, to 1, 3, or 5; and a per-
turbation proportion p to 0.2, 0.3, or 0.4. Detailed results for
each combination of these parameters can be found in the pa-
per’s website. Here, we show results when training the surro-
gate models using a total of 3000 samples with approximately
equal number for each combination of p and d.
The results in Figure 2 are obtained only on samples that
contain the events of interest and the model correctly predicts
the class. For the Audioset datasets, since the task is harder
than for KWS and Drums, we keep only samples that had a
score for the target class in the top 50%. We explain only cor-
rectly predicted samples, as, for other cases, the model may use
information beyond the ground truth, invalidating the evaluation
procedure. The final sets used to obtain results include 50, 50,
52, 71, and 44 samples for Drums, KWS, Music, Speech, and
Dog, respectively.
The figure shows that all explainers reach an average AUC
well above random performance (0.5 for AUC). The best surro-
gate model, in all cases, is RF, suggesting that linear models are
not able to adequately model the interactions between differ-
ent segments of the signal. Notably, the optimal type of mask
depends on the dataset with noise being better for Drums and
zeros being better for all Audioset sets. The similarity between
213

0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45
Duration of ground truth preserved (s)
0.80
0.85
0.90
0.95
Average AUC
RF-noise
RF-zeros
LR-noise
LR-zeros
SHAP-noise
SHAP-zeros
Figure 3: Average AUC on the Drums dataset as only the first
part of the ground truth for each event is preserved.
results on the three Audioset sets is likely explained by the fact
that the same model, AST, is being explained in all cases. This
suggest that the optimal type of mask may depend on the model
to be explained, yet more experimentation is needed to support
this hypothesis.
A notable result in Figure 2 is that the average AUC on the
KWS dataset is almost 1.0 for every explainer. This result val-
idates our benchmarking procedure since it shows that obtain-
ing perfect average AUC with an explainability model is pos-
sible. Further, it indicates that the model needs to rely on the
full word to make its decision in order to differentiate it from
all other words. For other tasks, models may rely on only part
of the event, but our evaluation compares explanations to the
entire segment, leading to lower AUC even when explanations
are accurate. In addition, the perfect result in KWS suggests
that explanations for models that were trained to detect events
without time-aligned annotations can be used as time-aligners
for those events. This is a very interesting conclusion given that
temporal annotations of acoustic events are expensive to obtain.
The fact that our evaluation approach requires datasets with
time annotations significantly restricts the datasets that can be
used for benchmarking. The faithfulness (FF) metrics, on the
other hand, can be computed in an unsupervised way. If such
metric correlated well with the average AUC we could use it
as a proxy, avoiding the need for time annotations.
Unfor-
tunately, this is not the case.
In our experiments, the aver-
age FF computed as the difference between the score obtained
with the unperturbed signal and the one obtained after mask-
ing the top X% most important segments [16] has very dif-
ferent trends compared to the average AUC for any value of
X ∈{1, 5, 10, 20, 50}. For example, according to FF, SHAP
is the best method for Drums, while, according to the average
AUC, SHAP is the worst method. Detailed results on FF can be
found in the paper’s website.
3.2. The impact of inaccurate ground truth
As mentioned before, the use of AUC over ground truth loca-
tions of the events of interest to assess explanation quality im-
plicitly assumes that the full region annotated as containing the
event should be important for the model. Yet, for the Drums
synthetic dataset we know that only the beginning of the hit,
which contains most of the energy, is likely to be relevant for the
model. Hence, our ground truth annotations, which are based
on the location of the full kick waveform, include regions that
are probably irrelevant. Explainers that find that region to be
unimportant would be penalized.
To analyze the impact of this potential inaccuracy in the
ground truth, we computed the average AUC while progres-
sively eliminating the end of each ground truth region from met-
ric computation. In this way, the positive labels are more and
more likely to include only the important information for clas-
sification. Figure 3 shows the impact of restricting the labels in
this way on the same six explainer models from Figure 2. We
1
0
1
Amplitude
THE EXACT
RIGHT
GUY
I
 FULLY
APPROVE
 HE'S
A WONDERFUL
GUY
WE HAVE A
GREAT
TIME
 HE CAN
DRINK
 THAT'S
AWESOME
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
Time (s)
0.1
0.2
0.3
RF importance
Classifier Training Data
Corrupted IEMOCAP
Original IEMOCAP
Figure 4: Example explanation for an IEMOCAP “happy” sam-
ple with a summed cough (in red) for two models: one trained
with the original IEMOCAP samples and one trained with the
corrupted version that contains coughs for the “happy” class.
can see that, when keeping only the initial 0.25 seconds of the
ground truth, the average AUC of our best model is very close
to 1.0. Importantly, the ranking of the systems is preserved even
when the ground truth contains non-important segments. This
result is essential since it suggests that, as long as the important
regions are contained somewhere within the ground truth, the
average AUC of the importance values can be used to rank ap-
proaches and tune hyperparameters. More evidence is needed
to make sure this result holds for other models and datasets.
3.3. Uncovering spurious correlations
Finally, we use the RF+zeros explainer to uncover the spurious
correlations in the corrupted IEMOCAP training set (see Sec-
tion 2.3). Figure 4 shows the importance curves for the emotion
classification models trained with the corrupted and the original
training sets for the signal shown at the top, where a cough was
added to the original IEMOCAP signal. We can see that, for the
model trained with the corrupted data, the explanation finds the
location of the cough as the most important region, uncovering
the fact that the model is relying on this cough to make its de-
cision. Overall, this explainer achieves an average AUC of 0.92
for the detection of the coughs. In a real scenario where this
issue was not known to the developer or the user, these expla-
nations would effectively expose the problem.
Notably, the importance curve for the model trained with
the original IEMOCAP dataset highlights a part of the wave-
form that clearly indicates happiness, focusing on the word
“great” (see the paper’s website for the audio waveform) and,
to a smaller degree, other three regions over the words “right”,
“fully approve” and “wonderful”. It also gives some importance
to the cough, indicating that the model scores are somewhat af-
fected by it, a reasonable conclusion given that the model has
probably seen very few coughs in the training data.
4. Conclusions
We proposed a benchmark for assessing the quality of time-
localized explanation approaches for audio classification mod-
els. We used this benchmark to optimize and compare various
explainability approaches by creating a dataset of perturbations
of the input sample, using it to train a surrogate model from
which explanations are extracted. We found that, in some tasks,
the best explanations reach close to perfect performance. Fur-
ther, we illustrated the use of these models for uncovering spuri-
ous correlations in an emotion dataset. The benchmark datasets
and code are available on the paper’s website, where we plan to
continuously add new datasets and systems.
214

5. Acknowledgments
This material is based upon work supported by the Air Force
Office of Scientific Research, United States under the awards
number FA9550-18-1-0026 and number F9550-21-1-0445.
6. References
[1] M. A. A. Nasim, P. Biswas, A. Rashid, A. Biswas, and K. D.
Gupta, “Trustworthy xai and application,” 2024.
[2] J. Adebayo, M. Muelly, I. Liccardi, and B. Kim, “Debugging tests
for model explanations,” in Proceedings of the 34th International
Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2020, pp.
700–712.
[3] R. Islam, E. Abdel-Raheem, and M. Tarique, “A study of using
cough sounds and deep neural networks for the early detection of
covid-19,” Biomedical Engineering Advances, vol. 3, p. 100025,
2022.
[4] I. Ben Amor, J.-F. Bonastre, B. O’Brien, and P.-M. Bousquet,
“Describing the phonetics in the underlying speech attributes for
deep and interpretable speaker recognition,” in Interspeech2023,
2023.
[5] A. Nfissi, W. Bouachir, N. Bouguila, and B. L. Mishara, “Iterative
feature boosting for explainable speech emotion recognition,” in
2023 International Conference on Machine Learning and Appli-
cations (ICMLA).
IEEE, 2023, pp. 543–549.
[6] M. Mersha, K. Lam, J. Wood, A. AlShami, and J. Kalita, “Ex-
plainable artificial intelligence: A survey of needs, techniques,
applications, and future direction,” 2025.
[7] A. Binder, G. Montavon, S. Bach, K.-R. M¨uller, and W. Samek,
“Layer-wise relevance propagation for neural networks with local
renormalization layers,” 2016.
[8] A. Shrikumar, P. Greenside, and A. Kundaje, “Learning important
features through propagating activation differences,” 2019.
[9] M. Sundararajan, A. Taly, and Q. Yan, “Axiomatic attribution for
deep networks,” 2017.
[10] M. T. Ribeiro, S. Singh, and C. Guestrin, “” why should i trust
you?” explaining the predictions of any classifier,” in Proceedings
of the 22nd ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge
discovery and data mining, 2016, pp. 1135–1144.
[11] M. Scott, L. Su-In et al., “A unified approach to interpreting model
predictions,” Advances in neural information processing systems,
vol. 30, pp. 4765–4774, 2017.
[12] S. Wachter, B. Mittelstadt, and C. Russell, “Counterfactual expla-
nations without opening the black box: Automated decisions and
the gdpr,” 2018.
[13] S. Mishra, B. L. Sturm, and S. Dixon, “Local interpretable
model-agnostic explanations for music content analysis.” in IS-
MIR, vol. 53, 2017, pp. 537–543.
[14] V. Haunschmid, E. Manilow, and G. Widmer, “audiolime:
Listenable explanations using source separation,” CoRR, vol.
abs/2008.00582, 2020.
[15] J. Bento, P. Saleiro, A. F. Cruz, M. A. Figueiredo, and P. Bizarro,
“Timeshap: Explaining recurrent models through sequence per-
turbations,” in Proceedings of the 27th ACM SIGKDD conference
on knowledge discovery & data mining, 2021, pp. 2565–2573.
[16] C. S. Chan, H. Kong, and L. Guanqing, “A comparative study
of faithfulness metrics for model interpretability methods,” in
Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), S. Muresan,
P. Nakov, and A. Villavicencio, Eds.
Dublin, Ireland: Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics, May 2022, pp. 5029–5038.
[17] F. Paissan, M. Ravanelli, and C. Subakan, “Listenable maps for
audio classifiers,” 2024.
[18] J. Parekh, S. Parekh, P. Mozharovskyi, F. d’Alch´e Buc, and
G. Richard, “Listen to interpret: Post-hoc interpretability for au-
dio networks with nmf,” 2022.
[19] A. Akman and B. W. Schuller, “Atthear: Explaining audio trans-
formers using attention-aware nmf,” ICASSP 2024 - 2024 IEEE
International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Pro-
cessing (ICASSP), pp. 7015–7019, 2024.
[20] S. Haufe, R. Wilming, B. Clark, R. Zhumagambetov, D. Panknin,
and A. Boubekki, “Explainable ai needs formal notions of expla-
nation correctness,” 2024.
[21] R. Wilming, L. Kieslich, B. Clark, and S. Haufe, “Theoretical
behavior of xai methods in the presence of suppressor variables,”
2023.
[22] T. A. Abdullah, M. S. M. Zahid, A. F. Turki, W. Ali, A. A. Jiman,
M. J. Abdulaal, N. M. Sobahi, and E. T. Attar, “Sig-lime: a signal-
based enhancement of lime explanation technique,” IEEE Access,
2024.
[23] V. Panayotov, G. Chen, D. Povey, and S. Khudanpur, “Lib-
rispeech: an asr corpus based on public domain audio books,”
in 2015 IEEE international conference on acoustics, speech and
signal processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2015, pp. 5206–5210.
[24] L. Lugosch, M. Ravanelli, P. Ignoto, V. S. Tomar, and Y. Ben-
gio, “Speech model pre-training for end-to-end spoken language
understanding,” 2019.
[25] M. McAuliffe, M. Socolof, S. Mihuc, M. Wagner, and M. Son-
deregger, “Montreal forced aligner: Trainable text-speech align-
ment using kaldi,” in Interspeech 2017, 2017, pp. 498–502.
[26] S. Hershey, D. P. Ellis, E. Fonseca, A. Jansen, C. Liu, R. C.
Moore, and M. Plakal, “The benefit of temporally-strong labels
in audio event classification,” in ICASSP 2021-2021 IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP).
IEEE, 2021, pp. 366–370.
[27] Y. Gong, Y.-A. Chung, and J. Glass, “Ast: Audio spectrogram
transformer,” in Interspeech 2021, 2021, pp. 571–575.
[28] A. Chhabra, A. Veer Singh, R. Srivastava, and V. Mittal, “Drum
instrument classification using machine learning,” in 2020 2nd In-
ternational Conference on Advances in Computing, Communica-
tion Control and Networking (ICACCCN), 2020, pp. 217–221.
[29] Y.-L. Liu, R. Feng, J.-H. Yuan, and Z.-H. Ling, “Clever hans ef-
fect found in automatic detection of alzheimer’s disease through
speech,” in Interspeech 2024, 2024, pp. 2435–2439.
[30] M. Arjovsky, L. Bottou, I. Gulrajani, and D. Lopez-Paz, “Invariant
risk minimization,” 2020.
[31] A. Borah, D. Pylypenko, C. Espana-Bonet, and J. van Genabith,
“Measuring spurious correlation in classification: ’clever hans’ in
translationese,” 2024.
[32] D. Wallis and I. Buvat, “Clever hans effect found in a widely used
brain tumour mri dataset,” Medical Image Analysis, vol. 77, p.
102368, 2022.
[33] L. Gauder, P. Riera, A. Slachevsky, G. Forno, A. M. Garcia, and
L. Ferrer, “The unreliability of acoustic systems in alzheimer’s
speech datasets with heterogeneous recording conditions,” 2024.
[34] C. Busso, M. Bulut, C.-C. Lee, A. Kazemzadeh, E. Mower,
S. Kim, J. N. Chang, S. Lee, and S. S. Narayanan, “Iemocap:
Interactive emotional dyadic motion capture database,” Language
resources and evaluation, vol. 42, pp. 335–359, 2008.
[35] K. J. Piczak, “Esc: Dataset for environmental sound classifica-
tion,” in Proceedings of the 23rd ACM international conference
on Multimedia, 2015, pp. 1015–1018.
[36] L. Ferrer, O. Scharenborg, and T. B¨ackstr¨om, “Good practices for
evaluation of machine learning systems,” 2024.
215
