EmotionRankCLAP: Bridging Natural Language Speaking Styles and Ordinal
Speech Emotion via Rank-N-Contrast
Shreeram Suresh Chandra1,2, Lucas Goncalves3, Junchen Lu4, Carlos Busso5, Berrak Sisman1
1Center for Language and Speech Processing (CLSP), Johns Hopkins University, USA
2The University of Texas at Dallas, USA 3Amazon, USA 4NUS, Singapore
5Language Technologies Institute (LTI), Carnegie Mellon University, USA
busso@cmu.edu, sisman@jhu.edu
Abstract
Current emotion-based contrastive language-audio pretraining
(CLAP) methods typically learn by na¨ıvely aligning audio sam-
ples with corresponding text prompts. Consequently, this ap-
proach fails to capture the ordinal nature of emotions, hinder-
ing inter-emotion understanding and often resulting in a wide
modality gap between the audio and text embeddings due to
insufficient alignment. To handle these drawbacks, we intro-
duce EmotionRankCLAP, a supervised contrastive learning ap-
proach that uses dimensional attributes of emotional speech and
natural language prompts to jointly capture fine-grained emo-
tion variations and improve cross-modal alignment. Our ap-
proach utilizes a Rank-N-Contrast objective to learn ordered re-
lationships by contrasting samples based on their rankings in
the valence-arousal space. EmotionRankCLAP outperforms ex-
isting emotion-CLAP methods in modeling emotion ordinality
across modalities, measured via a cross-modal retrieval task.1
Index Terms: emotion, ordinality, contrastive language-audio
pretraining, speaking style descriptions
1. Introduction
The expression and perception of human emotion are inherently
continuous in nature [1]. Emotions also possess an ordinal na-
ture, as humans are more adept at detecting relative changes in
expression rather than identifying absolute emotional states [2].
However, existing paralinguistic models that attempt to capture
the ordinality of speech emotion primarily rely on dimensional
attribute annotations [3,4], which limit their ability to fully rep-
resent the nuanced structure of emotional expression. We be-
lieve that fine-grained and ordinal nature of speech emotion can
be more effectively captured with natural language descriptions.
Natural language supervision has emerged as a promising
approach for enhancing audio and speech understanding. In
particular, contrastive language-audio pretraining (CLAP) [5]
has gained popularity as a method for aligning audio with nat-
ural language prompts. By sharing a common representation
space across modalities, CLAP enables tasks such as zero-shot
captioning [6], classification [7], and cross-modal retrieval [8].
CLAP has also been adopted extensively for emotion tasks
including speech emotion recognition(SER) [9], emotionaltext-
to-speech (TTS) [10] and emotion audio retrieval (EAR) [11].
GemoCLAP [9] focuses on building a discriminative represen-
tation space for SER using categorical labels. ParaCLAP [12]
and CLAP with prompt-augmentation [11] improve supervi-
sion by describing acoustic properties of emotional audio. The
work most similar to ours, CLAP4emo [13], generates pseudo-
captions using pre-trainedlarge language models(LLMs) based
1https://kodhandarama.github.io/emotionrankclap.github.io/
on categorical emotion annotations of speech utterances. With
the current approach of using only categorical emotions, intra-
class variability is overlooked—for instance, all speech-text
pairs labeled as “happiness” are treated identically, ignoring dif-
ferences in intensity or expression. Likewise, inter-class rela-
tionships are not captured, such as the fact that “disgust” and
“fear” are more closely related than “happiness” and “fear”.
A key limitation in existing CLAP-based models is their
reliance on the diagonal-constraint-based symmetric cross-
entropy (SCE) loss [14], which presents two major drawbacks.
First, at the batch level, this loss function fails to capture inter-
emotion relationships across modalities. Since emotions are
inherently ordinal, aligning each speech-text pair in isolation
overlooks the structured relationships between different emo-
tional states. Secondly, while emotion-based CLAP models
leverage emotion annotations in text prompt design, they re-
tain the loss formulation of CLIP [14], designed originally for
self-supervised training, leading to a modality gap between text
and audio embeddings at the end of training. Here, the modal-
ity gap refers to the insufficient overlap of embedding spaces
of different modalities, a well-documented issue in cross-modal
learning frameworks [15]. We argue that this modality gap can
be effectively reduced in a supervised setting by incorporating
dimensional emotional attributes in speech.
To address these limitations, we adopt Rank-N-
Contrast [16], a contrastive learning objective specifically
designed to learn ordered representations by ranking samples
relative to their positions in the target label space. This
objective ensures that the learned representations maintain the
intended ordinal structure, aligning with the target rankings.
While extensively studied in regression tasks, its application to
cross-modal representation learning, particularly for capturing
the ordinality of emotions, remains unexplored. In this
work, we introduce EmotionRankCLAP, a novel supervised
contrastive learning strategy that uses dimensional emotional
attributes to learn a continuous emotion embedding space with
the cross-modal formulation of Rank-N-Contrast. Our key
contributions are as follows:
• We propose leveraging the ordinal nature of emotions to learn
a fine-grained emotion embedding space, using the Rank-N-
Contrast objective;
• We show that using Rank-N-Contrast as an alternative to
symmetric cross entropy loss improves cross-modal align-
ment, bringing the distributions of the audio embeddings and
text embeddings closer together;
• We formulate a cross-modal retrieval task that checks the
emotion ordinal consistency of the audio and text embed-
dings - and we show EmotionRankCLAP outperforms other
emotion-based CLAP models in this test.
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
3000 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1198
• We generate and release natural-language emotional speak-
ing style descriptions based on dimensional emotion at-
tributes from the MSP-Podcast corpus [17] (release 1.12) to
bridge the speech and text modalities in the CLAP model.
To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first to lever-
age the ordinal nature of speech emotions to align the con-
tinuums of dimensional speech emotion and natural language
speaking style descriptions.
2. Related work
2.1. Cross-modal contrastive learning
Contrastive learning has proven to be an effective approach for
aligning multiple modalities in shared representation spaces [5,
14, 18]. While unsupervised contrastive learning relies solely
on modality co-occurrence, it can lead to imprecise alignments
without capturing task-specific semantic relationships, prompt-
ing the exploration of supervised settings [19, 20]. By incorpo-
rating supervision, contrastive learning frameworks can better
capture fine-grained inter-modality relationships, making them
particularly effective for emotion-related tasks. Inspired by
these strategies, we propose a cross-modal version of Rank-
N-Contrast, leveraging dimensional emotional attributes as an
additional supervision signal to improve speech-text alignment.
2.2. Natural language description of speech emotion
Emotion annotations have traditionally been limited to man-
ually annotated categorical labels or dimensional attributes.
However, recent advancements have shifted the focus towards
using natural language, allowing for more descriptive represen-
tations of speech emotion. This has been made possible thanks
to caption generation capability of LLMs [21]. This capability
has been adapted into multimodal SER models [22,23] to gener-
ate pseudo-captions. Speech language models like SECap [24]
and AlignCap [25] present a paradigm shift away from SER and
towards speech emotion captioning via speech language mod-
els. Similarly, emotional TTS models are increasingly prior-
itizing controllability by using natural speaking style prompts
rather than relying solely on categorical emotion labels [26].
Our approach leverages an LLM to generate speaking style de-
scriptions in the absence of speech datasets with captions.
3. EmotionRankCLAP
We propose EmotionRankCLAP, a supervised cross-modal con-
trastive learning framework to align emotional speech with nat-
ural language speaking style descriptions in a shared embedding
space, leveraging the ordinal nature of speech emotions through
a Rank-N-Contrast learning objective.
3.1. Problem Formulation
Let{X a
i,X t
i} fori∈{ 1,...,N} be a batch of<speech, text>
pairs. Input from audio and text modalities are first encoded via
two separate encoders,f a(.) andf t(.), yielding embeddings:
ˆX a
i =f a(X a
i ); ˆX t
i =f t(X t
i ), (1)
where ˆX a∈ RN×V and ˆX t∈ RN×U . We employ a pre-
trained, frozen WavLM-based dimensional SER model.2 [27] as
2https://huggingface.co/3loi/SER-Odyssey-Baseline-WavLM-Multi-
Attributes
the audio encoder f a(.), extracting 1024-dimensional embed-
dings via attentive statistics pooling across the temporal dimen-
sion from the last transformer layer. The text encoderf t(.) is a
pre-trained, frozen DistilRoBERTa model3 [28], using the final-
layer [CLS] token as a 768-dimensional embedding. These rep-
resentations are then projected to the same dimensionD = 512:
ˆEa
i =proj a( ˆX a
i ); ˆEt
i =proj t( ˆX t
i ), (2)
where ˆEa, ˆEt ∈ RN×D are the projected embeddings, and
proj a andproj t are modules with a linear transformation fol-
lowed with ReLU activation. The goal of EmotionRankCLAP
is to align the two modalities in the same embedding space
while preserving ordinality to capture the dimensional nature
of emotion in both text descriptions and speech.
3.2. Supervised contrastive learning with Rank-N-Contrast
Emotions are inherently continuous and ordinal, meaning that
within any batch of emotional speech and its corresponding
speaking style descriptions, a structured relationship exists be-
tween each possible pair, totalingN×N cross-modal pairs. To
learn this structured relationship, we adopt Rank-N-Contrast,
which contrasts samples based on their rankings in valence-
arousal label space.
In the proposed formulation, we jointly model the ordinality
of valence and arousal by considering them together in the label
space. Valence reflects the sentiment expressed in the utterance,
ranging from negative to positive. Arousal indicates the level of
activation, with values spanning from calm to highly active.
For a given audio embedding anchor ˆEa
i , the likelihood of
association with a text embedding ˆEt
j depends on the relative
distance of their labels in the valence-arousal space. Emotional
distance is assessed by the L2 distance between ( valencea
i ,
arousala
i ) and (valencet
j, arousalt
j), where closer samples
are considered more alike. Here,i andj denote sample indices.
Let Si,j :={ ˆEt
k | d( ˆEa
i, ˆEt
k) > d( ˆEa
i, ˆEt
j)} denote the
set of text embeddings that are of higher rank than ˆEt
j in terms
of label distance with respect to ˆEa
i , whered(·,·) is theL2 dis-
tance measure between two labels in the valence-arousal plane.
Then the normalized likelihood of ˆEt
j given ˆEa
i and Si,j
can be written as
P ( ˆEt
j| ˆEa
i,S i,j) = exp(sim( ˆEa
i, ˆEt
j)/τ )
P
ˆEt
k∈Si,j
exp(sim ˆEa
i, ˆEt
k)/τ )
, (3)
where Si,j represents the set of all ˆEt
k that satisfy the rank-
ing condition with respect to ˆEa
i and ˆEt
j. This set contains the
corresponding negative pairs for the positive pair ˆEa
i, ˆEt
j. The
similarity function sim (x,y ) = xT y
∥x∥·∥y∥ calculates the cosine
similarity between cross-modal features andτ denotes the tem-
perature parameter. Defining this objective over all samples in
a batch, we get the Rank-N-Contrast cross- modal loss:
LRNC-CM = 1
N 2
NX
i=1
NX
j=1
− logP ( ˆEt
j| ˆEa
i,S i,j). (4)
The loss functionLRNC-CM exploits the continuous structure of
the valence-arousal label space to ensure that emotional speech
samples and speaking style descriptions with similar valence-
arousal values also remain close in the learned representation
space. The Rank-N-Contrast formulation enhances cross-modal
alignment by leveraging all N×N speech-text pairs within a
3https://huggingface.co/j-hartmann/emotion-english-distilroberta-base
3001
"High-valence,
 high arousal 
caption"
"Low-valence,
 low arousal 
caption"
"Low-valence,
 high arousal 
caption"
Valence : 6
Arousal : 6
Valence : 2
Arousal : 1
Valence : 1
Arousal : 6.5
,
"High-valence,
 high arousal 
caption"
Positive Pair Corresponding Negative Pair(s)
"Low-valence,
 low arousal 
caption"
"Low-valence,
 high arousal 
caption"
"Low-valence,
 high arousal 
caption"
"Low-valence,
 low arousal 
caption"
Anchor
(a) Given batch of speech-text pairs
(b) Cross-modal pair construction with Rank-N-Contrast
,
,
,
,
Figure 1: Illustration of Rank-N-Contrast in a cross-modal set-
ting. The anchor is boxed in blue. (a) A batch of speech-text
pairs along with their valence-arousal labels. (b) Positive and
negative pair selection via Rank-N-Contrast criteria.
batch to form positive-negative pairs based on a ranking crite-
rion. Each positive pair is assigned corresponding negative pairs
according to their similarity ranking, ensuring a structured con-
trastive learning process. In contrast, SCE uses onlyN positive
pairs per batch, limiting cross-modal alignment.
3.3. Illustrative example of positive/negative pair selection
We consider a batch of three speech-text pairs (X a
i,X t
i )
(i ∈ {1, 2, 3}) with corresponding valence-arousal annota-
tions as shown in Figure 1(a). As a demonstration of the posi-
tive/negative pair selection, we set the first speech utteranceX a
1
as the anchor. Figure 1(b) illustrates two positive pairs and their
corresponding negative pairs.
When considering the pair ( X a
1 , X t
1) as positive,
d(X a
1,X t
1) = 0 as both share the same label. This makes
X t
2 and X t
3 negative samples since d(X a
1,X t
2) > 0 and
d(X a
1,X t
3)> 0. Similarly, whenX t
2 forms a positive pair with
X a
1 ,X t
3 is a negative sample since d(X a
1,X t
3) > d(X a
1,X t
2).
In this case, X t
1 is not a negative sample since d(X a
1,X t
1) <
d(X a
1,X t
2).
Thus, structured relationships emerge: closer positive pairs
tend to have more negative samples, reinforcing their closeness,
while distant positive pairs have fewer negative samples, reduc-
ing their attraction. For a batch of N, we iterate over each X a
i
fori = 1,...,N , formingN relationships per anchor, resulting
inN×N structured relationships.
3.4. Generation of speaking style descriptions
Existing speech emotion datasets are primarily designed for cat-
egorical and dimensional emotion recognition [17, 29], provid-
ing annotations in terms of categorical labels and dimensional
attributes (valence, arousal, dominance). In contrast, speech
emotion captioning remains an emerging field, with limited
datasets featuring manually annotated speaking style descrip-
tions. To bridge this gap, we make use of an LLM [30] to gen-
erate pseudo-captions based on valence and arousal. While this
work focuses on these two attributes, incorporating dominance
and other factors is left for future exploration. Figure 2 contains
the prompt used to generate the natural language speaking style
descriptions using OpenAI’s o1 model.
”Given the following scale of emotions - valence (1-very negative; 7-very positive),
arousal (1-very calm; 7-very active), write a sentence describing a speaking style
that is{VALENCE} on valence,{AROUSAL} on arousal. Do not use any num-
bers in the sentence. The sentence should start with: The person is speaking ... ”
Figure 2: Prompt used to generate emotional style descriptions
based on valence-arousal values.
4. Experiments
In this section, we discuss the experimentation settings, the
baselines and the evaluations used to probe the properties of
the cross-modal embeddings.
4.1. Experimental setup
Dataset: We use the MSP-Podcast v1.12 corpus [17] for train-
ing, validation, and testing. Collected from real-world podcasts,
it features significant acoustic variability, diverse speakers, and
a broad range of emotional expressions, making it particularly
challenging. We filter out samples with categorical emotion la-
bels ‘X’ (no agreement) and ‘O’ (other), resulting in 90,022
training, 25,258 development, and 34,963 test samples (using
only test 1 set). The large test set provides a comprehensive
coverage of speaking styles. Each speech utterance is annotated
with (valence, arousal, dominance) based on annotations pro-
vided by at least five annotators. We utilize the average score
across annotators.
Baselines:
• CLAP-template: This model is trained with the CLAP
framework (SCE loss) using the text prompt: ‘‘speech has
{categorical label} emotion” as input to the text encoder.
• CLAP4emo [13]: This model replaces the pre-defined
prompts in CLAP-template with natural language style de-
scriptions generated with the help of ChatGPT [30] and an
NRC lexicon [31]. The captions for this model are generated
following the pipeline described in their paper.
• CLAP-SCE (A-V): An ablation model trained with CLAP
framework under SCE loss, where we use captions generated
with dimensional emotional attributes instead of categorical
emotion. The difference between this method and the pro-
posed method is the loss function (SCE vs RNC). Here, (A-
V) indicates that we use dimensional emotional attributes to
generate the captions for this method.
• SupConCLAP (A-V): Another ablation baseline where we
replace the SCE loss in CLAP-SCE (A-V) with SupCon [19],
using categorical emotion labels to define the similarity ma-
trix between text and audio embeddings.
• ParaCLAP [12]: This model is trained to align emotional
audio with acoustic properties like pitch, jitter, shimmer, ar-
ticulation rate using natural language descriptions. We ex-
tract acoustic information using Parselmouth-Praat [32].
Training details: All input waveforms are resampled to
16 kHz and cropped or zero-padded to 10 seconds. Text in-
puts are truncated to a maximum of 512 tokens. To ensure fair
comparisons, all models share the same text and audio encoder
architecture, with jointly trained projection layers. We train us-
ing the Adam optimizer (learning rate 1× 10−4), a learnable
temperature (initialized at 1.0), and a batch size of 64 on an
3002
Table 1: Comparison of methods on cross-modal alignment.
* denotes statistically significant improvement over all base-
lines (two-tailed p-test, p<0.05).
Method MMD ↓ Wass. Dist.↓
CLAP-SCE (A-V) 0.096 ±.002 0.180 ±.003
SupConCLAP (A-V) 0.4436 ±.003 0.4172 ±.003
EmotionRankCLAP (A-V) *0.087±.001 *0.065 ±.007
Table 2: Comparison of cross-modal retrieval methods. * indi-
cates a statistically significant improvement over all baselines
(two-tailed p-test, p<0.05). AOC and VOC denote arousal and
valence ordinal consistency, while KT represents Kendall’s Tau.
Method AOC (KT) ↑ VOC (KT)↑
CLAP-template 0.171 ±.26 0.466 ±.14
CLAP4emo [10] 0.284 ±.20 0.533 ±.14
ParaCLAP [8] 0.283 ±.20 0.217 ±.20
CLAP-SCE (A-V) 0.492 ±.15 0.505 ±.13
SupConCLAP (A-V) 0.346 ±.19 0.530 ±.15
EmotionRankCLAP (A-V) *0.552±.12 *0.616 ±.13
NVIDIA L4 GPU. All models are implemented in PyTorch and
trained for 15 epochs, selecting the checkpoint with the lowest
validation loss.
4.2. Evaluations and results
4.2.1. Cross-modal alignment
This evaluation tests the overlap of audio and text embedding
spaces. We conduct 30 trials, each randomly sampling 5000
speech-text pairs from the MSP Podcast test-1 set. The au-
dio embeddings are extracted from speech utterances, and text
embeddings are extracted from the natural language descrip-
tions. We measure maximum mean discrepancy (MMD) [33]
with a radial basis function (RBF) kernel and Wasserstein dis-
tance [34] both of which quantify alignment between the em-
bedding distributions, where lower scores indicate better align-
ment. In this test, we only consider baselines which are trained
with the same caption data as the proposed method, and we
report the mean and standard deviation across the 30 trials.
As shown in Table 1, EmotionRankCLAP significantly outper-
forms the baselines by achieving the lowest MMD and Wasser-
stein distance scores, highlighting Rank-N-Contrast’s superior
cross-modal alignment compared to SCE and SupCon.
4.2.2. Cross-Modality Emotion Ordinality Test
In this evaluation, we examine how well the audio and text em-
bedding spaces preserve ordinal consistency for dimensional
emotional attributes. Specifically, ordinal consistency here
means that speaking style descriptions indicating higher (or
lower) valence (or arousal) should align more closely with
speech utterances that exhibit correspondingly higher (or lower)
valence (or arousal) levels. We design a cross-modal retrieval
task to probe this property. Using the prompt in Figure 2, we
generate 100 lists of speaking style descriptions, each contain-
ing 14 descriptions. We evaluate two properties: valence ordi-
nal consistency (VOC) and arousal ordinal consistency (AOC).
For VOC, we fix the arousal value in each list and vary valence
from 0.5 to 7 in steps of 0.5. The fixed arousal value is incre-
mented by 0.5 across lists, spanning the range [0.5,7], and resets
to 0.5 after reaching 7. Conversely, for AOC, we fix the valence
Retrieved speech
utterances
Valence: 1.9
Valence: 4.2
Ground truth
annotation
Valence: 6.6
CLAP
Emotional speech-
text pairs
Compare ordered list of valence values using Kendall's tau
(Used as a retrieval system)
Valence value used in
prompt to LLM
Speaker is very
frustrated ...
The person is
calm...Valence: 3
LLM-generated
descriptions
The speaker is
super happy...
Valence: 6
Valence: 1
Increasing order of valence
Figure 3: Cross-Modality Emotion Ordinality Test: This figure
shows a three-sample example for valence ordinal consistency,
while the actual evaluation uses 14 samples per list, repeated
across 100 lists for both valence and arousal.
value in each list and vary arousal similarly. After generating
these lists, we use the trained CLAP model as a retrieval sys-
tem to find the most similar speech utterances for each textual
description. The model encodes the speaking style prompt into
a text embedding and retrieves the speech utterance with the
closest audio embedding based on cosine similarity. We evalu-
ate this property using the Kendall’s Tau coefficient (KT) [35]
between the valence (or arousal) values used to generate the
speaking style descriptions and the valence (or arousal) values
of the retrieved speech utterances, as shown in Figure 3, and
report the mean and standard deviation across 100 lists. To pre-
vent redundant retrievals, each item is retrieved only once.
We observe that models trained using caption data gener-
ated with dimensional attribute guidance (denoted as (A-V))
are more consistent across both VOC and AOC tests. This
result highlights the importance of incorporating dimensional
attributes when generating speaking style captions, as it helps
in enhancing fine-grained cross-modal retrieval and in main-
taining ordinal consistency. Interestingly, models trained with
captions based on categorical emotions (CLAP-template and
CLAP4emo) are competitive in VOC tests, but their perfor-
mance degrades in AOC tests. Overall, EmotionRankCLAP
achieves a significantly higher KT coefficient in both settings—
VOC (lists with varying valence) and AOC (lists with varying
arousal), as shown in Table. 2. This result demonstrates that
our proposed cross-modal Rank-N-Contrast loss along with the
use of captions generated with dimensional attribute guidance
better preserves the ordinal structure of valence and arousal in
the embedding spaces.
5. Conclusions
This work proposes EmotionRankCLAP, a supervised con-
trastive learning approach that leverages the ordinal nature of
emotions to learn a cross-modal representation space to align di-
mensional speech emotions with corresponding speaking style
descriptions. We generate natural language speaking style de-
scriptions using dimensional attributes of speech emotion and
we show that this is crucial in preserving emotion ordinality.
We show that the proposed cross-modal formulation of Rank-
N-Contrast loss improves cross-modal alignment between text
and audio embedding spaces. We also design a cross-modal
retrieval task to check ordinal consistency between the embed-
ding spaces, and show that EmotionRankCLAP preserves ordi-
nal nature of both valence and arousal better compared to other
emotion-based CLAP models. In the future, we will explore
other speech emotion tasks that take advantage of close cross-
modal alignment and ordinal structure in the embedding space.
6. Acknowledgment
This work is supported by NSF CAREER award IIS-2338979.
3003
7. References
[1] J. A. Russell, “Core affect and the psychological construction of
emotion.” Psychological review, vol. 110, no. 1, p. 145, 2003.
[2] G. N. Yannakakis, R. Cowie, and C. Busso, “The ordinal nature
of emotions: An emerging approach,” IEEE Transactions on Af-
fective Computing, vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 16–35, 2018.
[3] S. Parthasarathy, R. Lotfian, and C. Busso, “Ranking emotional
attributes with deep neural networks,” in2017 IEEE international
conference on acoustics, speech and signal processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2017, pp. 4995–4999.
[4] H. P. Martinez, G. N. Yannakakis, and J. Hallam, “Don’t classify
ratings of affect; rank them!” IEEE transactions on affective com-
puting, vol. 5, no. 3, pp. 314–326, 2014.
[5] B. Elizalde, S. Deshmukh, M. Al Ismail, and H. Wang, “Clap
learning audio concepts from natural language supervision,” in
ICASSP 2023-2023 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics,
Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–5.
[6] S. Deshmukh, B. Elizalde, D. Emmanouilidou, B. Raj, R. Singh,
and H. Wang, “Training audio captioning models without audio,”
in ICASSP 2024 - 2024 IEEE International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2024, pp. 371–375.
[7] S. Ghosh, S. Kumar, C. K. R. Evuru, O. Nieto, R. Duraiswami,
and D. Manocha, “Reclap: Improving zero shot audio classifica-
tion by describing sounds,” CoRR, 2024.
[8] S. Deshmukh, B. Elizalde, and H. Wang, “Audio retrieval with
wavtext5k and clap training,” in Interspeech 2023 , 2023, pp.
2948–2952.
[9] Y . Pan, Y . Hu, Y . Yang, W. Fei, J. Yao, H. Lu, L. Ma, and J. Zhao,
“Gemo-clap: Gender-attribute-enhanced contrastive language-
audio pretraining for accurate speech emotion recognition,” in
ICASSP 2024-2024 IEEE International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) . IEEE, 2024, pp.
10 021–10 025.
[10] X. Jing, K. Zhou, A. Triantafyllopoulos, and B. W. Schuller, “En-
hancing emotional text-to-speech controllability with natural lan-
guage guidance through contrastive learning and diffusion mod-
els,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.06451, 2024.
[11] H. Dhamyal, B. Elizalde, S. Deshmukh, H. Wang, B. Raj,
and R. Singh, “Prompting audios using acoustic properties for
emotion representation,” in ICASSP 2024-2024 IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP). IEEE, 2024, pp. 11 936–11 940.
[12] X. Jing, A. Triantafyllopoulos, and B. Schuller, “Paraclap – to-
wards a general language-audio model for computational paralin-
guistic tasks,” in Interspeech 2024, 2024, pp. 1155–1159.
[13] W.-C. Lin, S. Ghaffarzadegan, L. Bondi, A. Kumar, S. Das, and
H.-H. Wu, “Clap4emo: Chatgpt-assisted speech emotion retrieval
with natural language supervision,” in ICASSP 2024-2024 IEEE
International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Pro-
cessing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2024, pp. 11 791–11 795.
[14] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, C. Hallacy, A. Ramesh, G. Goh, S. Agar-
wal, G. Sastry, A. Askell, P. Mishkin, J. Clark et al., “Learning
transferable visual models from natural language supervision,” in
International conference on machine learning. PMLR, 2021, pp.
8748–8763.
[15] C. Yaras, S. Chen, P. Wang, and Q. Qu, “Explaining and mitigat-
ing the modality gap in contrastive multimodal learning,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2412.07909, 2024.
[16] K. Zha, P. Cao, J. Son, Y . Yang, and D. Katabi, “Rank-n-contrast:
learning continuous representations for regression,” Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 36, 2024.
[17] R. Lotfian and C. Busso, “Building naturalistic emotionally bal-
anced speech corpus by retrieving emotional speech from existing
podcast recordings,” IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing,
vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 471–483, 2017.
[18] Y . Wu, K. Chen, T. Zhang, Y . Hui, T. Berg-Kirkpatrick, and
S. Dubnov, “Large-scale contrastive language-audio pretraining
with feature fusion and keyword-to-caption augmentation,” in
ICASSP 2023-2023 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics,
Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–5.
[19] P. Khosla, P. Teterwak, C. Wang, A. Sarna, Y . Tian, P. Isola,
A. Maschinot, C. Liu, and D. Krishnan, “Supervised contrastive
learning,” Advances in neural information processing systems ,
vol. 33, pp. 18 661–18 673, 2020.
[20] S. Stewart, K. Avramidis, T. Feng, and S. Narayanan, “Emotion-
aligned contrastive learning between images and music,” in
ICASSP 2024-2024 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics,
Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2024, pp. 8135–
8139.
[21] C. D. Kim, B. Kim, H. Lee, and G. Kim, “Audiocaps: Generat-
ing captions for audios in the wild,” in Proceedings of the 2019
Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Vol-
ume 1 (Long and Short Papers), 2019, pp. 119–132.
[22] S. Dutta and S. Ganapathy, “Llm supervised pre-training for mul-
timodal emotion recognition in conversations,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2501.11468, 2025.
[23] H. Wu, H.-C. Chou, K.-W. Chang, L. Goncalves, J. Du, J.-S. R.
Jang, C.-C. Lee, and H.-Y . Lee, “Empower typed descriptions by
large language models for speech emotion recognition,” in 2024
Asia Pacific Signal and Information Processing Association An-
nual Summit and Conference (APSIPA ASC), 2024, pp. 1–6.
[24] Y . Xu, H. Chen, J. Yu, Q. Huang, Z. Wu, S.-X. Zhang, G. Li,
Y . Luo, and R. Gu, “Secap: Speech emotion captioning with large
language model,” in Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Ar-
tificial Intelligence, vol. 38, no. 17, 2024, pp. 19 323–19 331.
[25] Z. Liang, H. Shi, and H. Chen, “Aligncap: Aligning speech
emotion captioning to human preferences,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.19134, 2024.
[26] D. Yang, S. Liu, R. Huang, C. Weng, and H. Meng, “Instructtts:
Modelling expressive tts in discrete latent space with natural lan-
guage style prompt,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech,
and Language Processing, 2024.
[27] L. Goncalves, A. N. Salman, A. R. Naini, L. M. Velazquez,
T. Thebaud, L. P. Garcia, N. Dehak, B. Sisman, and C. Busso,
“Odyssey 2024-speech emotion recognition challenge: Dataset,
baseline framework, and results,”Development, vol. 10, no. 9,290,
pp. 4–54, 2024.
[28] J. Hartmann, “Emotion english distilroberta-base,” https://
huggingface.co/j-hartmann/emotion-english-distilroberta-base/,
2022.
[29] C. Busso, M. Bulut, C.-C. Lee, A. Kazemzadeh, E. Mower,
S. Kim, J. N. Chang, S. Lee, and S. S. Narayanan, “Iemocap:
Interactive emotional dyadic motion capture database,”Language
resources and evaluation, vol. 42, pp. 335–359, 2008.
[30] OpenAI, “Gpt-4 technical report,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.08774, 2023. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.
org/abs/2303.08774
[31] S. M. Mohammad and P. D. Turney, “Crowdsourcing a word-
emotion association lexicon,”Computational Intelligence, vol. 29,
no. 3, pp. 436–465, 2013.
[32] Y . Jadoul, B. Thompson, and B. de Boer, “Introducing Parsel-
mouth: A Python interface to Praat,” Journal of Phonetics ,
vol. 71, pp. 1–15, 2018.
[33] A. Gretton, K. M. Borgwardt, M. J. Rasch, B. Sch ¨olkopf, and
A. Smola, “A kernel two-sample test,”Journal of Machine Learn-
ing Research, vol. 13, no. Mar, pp. 723–773, 2012.
[34] G. Peyr ´e and M. Cuturi, “Computational optimal transport,”Foun-
dations and Trends in Machine Learning , vol. 11, no. 5-6, pp.
355–607, 2019.
[35] M. G. Kendall, “A new measure of rank correlation,” Biometrika,
vol. 30, no. 1/2, pp. 81–93, 1938. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.2307/2332226
3004
