warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Relative cue weighting in multilingual stop voicing production
Le Xuan Chan1, Annika Heuser1
1Department of Linguistics, University of Pennsylvania, U.S.A.
lxchan@sas.upenn.edu, aheuser@sas.upenn.edu
Abstract
How does a multilingual speaker produce similar phonological
contrasts across the different languages that they speak? Some
theories predict crosslinguistic influence while others predict
that multilinguals keep separate sound inventories for each lan-
guage. In this paper, we present crosslinguistic data from early
multilingual speakers in Malaysia. We investigate the interac-
tion of a true voicing language (Malay), a variable voicing lan-
guage (English), and an aspiration language (Mandarin). Us-
ing a random forest classification of nine acoustic correlates
of stop voicing, we show that 1) all early multilinguals show
language-specific productions of stop voicing, and 2) variation
driven by dominance can still be observed despite this language-
specificity. In addition, we present evidence that closure voicing
is a salient correlate alongside aspiration in Malaysian English,
and that English is more reliant on secondary correlates than
Malay and Mandarin.
Index Terms: multilingual variation, language contact, stop
voicing contrast, sociophonetics
1. Introduction
1.1. Crosslinguistic influence and language-specificity in
multilingual speech
A major goal of multilingual phonetics is to determine whether
and how speakers keep similar yet distinct crosslinguistic cate-
gories apart. Theories of L2 speech such as the revised Speech
Learning Model [1], the Perceptual Assimilation Model [2], and
the Native Language Magnet model [3] argue for the impor-
tance of similarity: the more similar a phonemic category in
language A is to another sound in language B, the more likely
we are to observe crosslinguistic influence. These theories ad-
vocate for a connected representation of phonemic categories in
a multilingual speaker’s grammar.
Yet, evidence also shows that multilingual speakers are able
to, and even motivated to, keep crosslinguistic categories apart.
The revised Speech Learning Model also emphasizes the im-
portance of perceived dissimilarity – the idea that multilingual
speakers will keep two phonemic categories apart as long as
there is a perceptible difference between them. In other words,
bilingual speakers will have two /p/ categories if the realization
of /p/ is sufficiently different between their two languages. In
the case of stop voicing, we have evidence from [4], [5], [6], and
[7] that early multilinguals maintain language-specific produc-
tion and perception of stop voicing categories across different
languages.
1.2. Language contact and Malaysia
These theories are of particular relevance when examining pho-
netic variation in language contact settings, which are inher-
ently multilingual in nature. One such community is Malaysia,
a multiethnic and multilingual site of language contact, where
the population consists of 58% Malays and Bumiputeras ‘na-
tives,’ 30% Chinese, and 11% Indians [8].
The major languages spoken in Malaysia are Malay, En-
glish, Mandarin, and Tamil, while other Chinese (Cantonese,
Hokkien, Hakka, Foochow, etc.)
and Indic (Hindi, Malay-
alam, Telugu) languages are also spoken. These languages in-
teract both at the individual and societal level in Malaysia, due
to a combination of public and education policies, alongside
Malaysia’s history as a former British colony.
While Malay is the sole official language, as well as the
main working language in the public sector, Malaysian English
as a contact variety has undergone nativization [9, 10, 11] and is
spoken by many as a native or dominant language. At the same
time, mother tongue languages such as Mandarin and Tamil re-
main very salient languages within their respective communi-
ties [12, 13]. In fact, children can attend fully Mandarin- and
Tamil-medium public schools, in addition to Malay-medium
schools. All of this has resulted in a speech community where
speakers are functionally bilingual, if not tri- or multilingual,
with most speakers acquiring their non-dominant languages at
an early age. All speakers whose data we discuss in this paper,
for instance, reported acquiring their non-dominant languages
no later than age 7.
1.3. Stop voicing in Malaysia
Our feature of interest is stop voicing. Malaysia presents an in-
teresting case study of contact in stop voicing because of the
interaction between three typologically different languages –
Malay, Malaysian English, and Malaysian Mandarin. Malay is
a “true voicing” language: the contrast between voiced /b,d,g/
and voiceless /p,t,k/ is in vocal fold vibration during the conso-
nant closure (i.e. closure voicing). Aspiration has not been ob-
served to be a salient cue for distinguishing the two categories
[14, 15]. Mandarin contrasts with Malay in that it is an aspira-
tion language, and has a phonemic aspiration contrast between
/p,t,k/ and /ph,th,kh/, without voicing [16, 17]. [18] show that the
aspiration contrast in Malaysian Mandarin patterns with that of
other varieties.
English represents a middle ground between Malay and
Mandarin, in that a phonological voicing contrast exists be-
tween /b,d,g/ and /p,t,k/, but aspiration is considered the pri-
mary cue for distinguishing between the two categories, at
least phrase-initially [19].
In phrase-medial positions, how-
ever, [20, 21, 22] have shown that closure voicing does occur
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
116
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2259

Table 1: Coding and information about each participant group. F=female.
Code
Group
N
Language Dominance
Mal-dom.bi
Malay-dominant bilinguals
12 (F=6)
Malay >English
Eng-dom.bi
English-dominant bilinguals
10 (F=5)
English >Malay
Eng-dom.tri
English-dominant trilinguals
14 (F=5)
English >Mandarin >Malay
Mand-dom.tri
Mandarin-dominant trilinguals
13 (F=5)
Mandarin >English >Malay
for /b,d,g/.
In Malaysian English, aspiration has been shown to be vari-
able, with [23, 14] reporting short-lag voice onset time (VOT)
for /p,t,k/, while other studies like [18, 24] report long-lag VOT
values. These studies agree that closure voicing is also present
in Malaysian English, though its importance relative to aspira-
tion has not been ascertained. In this paper, we use a random
forest classification model to do precisely that.
The goal of this paper is to characterize the multilingual
variation present in a speech community where all three lan-
guages are spoken regularly among speakers and are in constant
contact. In particular, we look at the crosslinguistic productions
of four groups that differ in language dominance and linguistic
repertoire, and ask two questions: 1) Do early multilinguals in
Malaysia maintain language-specificity in their productions of
stop voicing crosslinguistically, and if so, 2) Can we still ob-
serve variation within this speech community due to speakers’
dominance and language backgrounds?
While focusing on the specific empirical values of each in-
dividual correlate is essential for an understanding of how stop
voicing is implemented articulatorily and acoustically, this pa-
per focuses on 1) the relative cue weighting of each correlate
(i.e. how correlates “bundle” together to form a phonological
contrast), and 2) how these weights compare across Malay, En-
glish, and Mandarin among different language backgrounds. In
doing so, we show the relevant cue-trading strategies for pro-
ducing voicing crosslinguistically by multilingual speakers in
Malaysia, and how this varies by language background.
2. Methods
2.1. Data
Our data is a subset of a larger corpus of multilingual speech
collected by the first author. It contains Malay, English, and
Mandarin elicited from Malaysian speakers differing in domi-
nance and language background. Our data subset consists of
word list readings of target items containing word-initial stops
in all three languages. All places of articulation (labial, alveo-
lar, velar) were included for both voicing categories in each lan-
guages. Including repetitions, each speaker produced 60 Malay
tokens (30 voiceless, 30 voiced), 70 English tokens (36 voice-
less, 34 voiced), and 42 Mandarin tokens (26 unaspirated, 16
aspirated). All stimuli were inserted in carrier phrases in the
respective language and were presented to speakers as slides
with accompanying illustrations. Speakers produced all three
languages in an identical context and received the same set of
instructions: “Read each sentence in a way that feels the most
natural to you.”
We recruited four groups of Malaysian speakers based on
dominance, i.e. which language they are dominant in, and lin-
guistic repertoire, i.e. how many languages they speak (Table
1). All groups speak Malay and English, and only the trilin-
gual groups speak Mandarin.
Language dominance was de-
termined using an adapted version of the Bilingual Language
Profile [25]. Note that this questionnaire is a rubric that takes
into account language history (e.g., age of acquisition, etc.), fre-
quency of usage, self-rated proficiency, and language attitudes,
and is not merely a measure of proficiency. In terms of eth-
nicity, the Malay-dominant group consisted of ethnic Malays,
while the other groups were ethnic Chinese Malaysians. Malay,
English and Mandarin data were elicited from both trilingual
groups, while only Malay and English data were elicited from
the bilingual groups. A total of 7,504 tokens were elicited.
2.2. Pre-processing
The data were hand-segmented and annotated in Praat for stop
identity, closure duration, aspiration/VOT, burst intensity, fol-
lowing vowel duration, and following vowel identity. We ex-
tracted the proportion of voicing during oral closure (voicing
hereafter). To calculate voicing, we detected periodic pulses
during the oral closure interval and calculated the proportion of
periodic frames. We also extracted the earliest defined onset f0
and F1 values. We checked at 5% vowel duration, then incre-
mentally checked 10%, 15%, etc., until we found defined values
for each of f0 and F1. Similarly, we extracted f0 and F1 at 25%
(or the nearest defined vowel duration). We then calculated the
difference between the early- and mid-vowel f0 and F1 values,
respectively. We refer to this difference as the onset f0/F1 slope.
We z-score normalized closure duration and burst intensity
by language and speaker. Remember that each speaker pro-
duced sentences in at least 2 languages. For Malay and English,
we z-score normalized onset f0 and onset f0 slope by language
and speaker. For Mandarin, we normalized these features by
tone as well. Finally, we normalized vowel duration, onset F1,
and onset F1 slope by language, speaker, and vowel. We did not
normalize voicing nor aspiration/VOT. Voicing is a percentage
so it is already constrained to a range of 0-100, regardless of the
speaker. Whether a language is classified as a true voicing or
aspiration language is based on its raw aspiration/VOT range.
For this reason, aspiration/VOT is not usually normalized in the
literature (e.g. [26, 27, 28, 5]). Doing so would likely mask the
very language-specific effects that we are interested in.
For z-score normalized features, we replaced outliers with
NaN values. We defined outliers as z-scored values above 3 or
below -3. We did not delete data points with NaN values for any
of the features. We simply ignored the NaNs and used the re-
maining available features. This again allowed us to maximize
the amount of data available for our consequent random forest
analysis.
2.3. Random forest analysis
We chose a random forest analysis to determine the relative cue
weights of the voicing contrast for each participant group in
each language. For the voicing contrast specifically, the feature
importances of decision trees have reflected established percep-
tual results of American English speakers[29]. A random forest
model is an ensemble model consisting of many decision trees.
117

Table 2: Random forest voicing classification accuracy for each language and participant group permutation. Overall accuracies are
based on all available features, while the next row of reported accuracies are excluding voicing and aspiration.
Language
Malay (Ml)
English (En)
Mandarin (Mn)
Group
Ml.bi
En.bi
En.tri
Mn.tri
Ml.bi
En.bi
En.tri
Mn.tri
En.tri
Mn.tri
Overall
accuracy
0.98
0.98
0.94
0.89
0.97
0.96
0.99
0.96
0.99
0.93
Excluding voicing and aspiration features
Accuracy
0.78
0.73
0.77
0.74
0.84
0.86
0.86
0.84
0.78
0.76
Accuracy
decrease
0.20
0.25
0.17
0.15
0.13
0.10
0.13
0.12
0.21
0.17
Accordingly, a random forest’s feature importances is the av-
erage of its decision trees’ feature importances. Previous work
have also had success in modeling cue weighting in other phe-
nomena with random forests (e.g. Mandarin tone acquisition
[30] and Korean laryngeal contrast [31]). We therefore believe
that the random forest model is a good choice for our purpose
of characterizing the variation in cue weights for the voicing
contrast across different languages and different multilingual
speaker profiles.
We used the Python scikit-learn RandomForestClassifier
class and opted for all the defaults, except for split criterion and
maximum tree depth. We conducted a grid search to find the
optimal settings for these parameters for each participant group
in each language. The constraint on the depth of the trees mak-
ing up the random forest were one of a number of parameters
available to prevent overfitting. The two split criterion options
that we included were gini impurity and entropy.
First, we held out about 10% of the speakers for each lan-
guage/speaker group combination. This prevents each model
from being able to use any speaker-specific patterns to succeed
on the test set. We held out 1 speaker for the smallest group
(English-dominant bilinguals) and 2 speakers for every other
group. The speakers held out from each group differed for the
language-specific random forests (e.g. Malay/Mal-dom.bi vs.
English/Mal-dom.bi). Overall, we held out between 10-16.7%
from each language/speaker group combination.
The remaining data was split into 10 random 90/10
train/validation splits, without regard for the speaker identity,
for each parameter configuration in the grid search (i.e. crite-
rion and depth combination). We tested each maximum tree
depth between 1 and 15 (inclusive). We determined the param-
eters with the best average validation performance and moved
forward with these. We then used all the training data to train
a 1000-tree random forest from which we extracted the feature
importances. We also recorded this random forest’s accuracy on
the held-out-speakers test data. We repeated this entire process
10 times, and report the average test accuracy across these iter-
ations in table 2. The best parameters as determined by the grid
search changed with each iteration.
We also conducted this analysis without the voicing and as-
piration/VOT (henceforth just aspiration) features. The goal of
this was to determine whether the efficacy of secondary cues for
classification changed between languages or participant groups.
We conducted the same grid search but this time missing the
voicing and aspiration features. The average accuracies for this
analysis are also recorded in table 2.
3. Results
Overall accuracy across all the participant groups in each lan-
guage is quite high. As shown in Table 2, the average across
all the groups being about 96%. Overall, the relative weighting
of voicing and aspiration is what we expect for each language:
voicing is most important for Malay, aspiration is most impor-
tant for Mandarin, and both are important for English. Despite
each group maintaining language-specificity, we still observe
variation between groups in the magnitude of importance as-
signed to each correlate. We predominantly discuss the multi-
lingual variation of aspiration and voicing in this paper, leaving
the discussion of other correlates for future work.
Looking first at Malay, we present the feature importances
for each participant group in Figure 1. Unsurprisingly for a true
voicing language, voicing is by far the most important feature
for all the groups. We nonetheless see an effect of language
dominance: voicing has a lower importance (under 0.5) for the
Mandarin-dominant speakers than for the other groups (over
0.5). This indicates crosslinguistic influence from Mandarin,
which does not utilize a voicing contrast in stops.
For English, we turn to the feature importances displayed
in Figure 2. Here, both voicing and aspiration are strong pri-
0.00
0.25
0.50
feature importance
voicing
aspiration
onset F1
burst intensity
onset F1 slope
vduration
closure duration
onset f0
place of articulation
Malay/Mal-dom.bi
0.00
0.25
0.50
feature importance
voicing
vduration
onset F1
aspiration
closure duration
onset F1 slope
burst intensity
onset f0
place of articulation
Malay/Eng-dom.bi
0.00
0.25
0.50
feature importance
voicing
onset F1
vduration
aspiration
onset F1 slope
burst intensity
closure duration
onset f0
place of articulation
Malay/Eng-dom.tri
0.00
0.25
0.50
feature importance
voicing
aspiration
vduration
onset F1
burst intensity
onset F1 slope
onset f0
closure duration
place of articulation
Malay/Mand-dom.tri
Figure 1: Feature importances of each participant group in Malay.
118

0.00
0.25
0.50
feature importance
voicing
onset f0
aspiration
onset F1
vduration
burst intensity
closure duration
onset F1 slope
place of articulation
English/Mal-dom.bi
0.00
0.25
0.50
feature importance
aspiration
voicing
onset f0
onset F1
vduration
burst intensity
onset F1 slope
place of articulation
closure duration
English/Eng-dom.bi
0.00
0.25
0.50
feature importance
voicing
aspiration
onset f0
onset F1
vduration
burst intensity
place of articulation
onset F1 slope
closure duration
English/Eng-dom.tri
0.00
0.25
0.50
feature importance
aspiration
voicing
onset f0
onset F1
vduration
burst intensity
closure duration
onset F1 slope
place of articulation
English/Mand-dom.tri
Figure 2: Feature importances of each participant group in English.
mary cues. Interestingly, which is the strongest cue appears
to be a function of language dominance. For Malay-dominant
bilinguals, voicing is much more important than aspiration. In
fact, aspiration is not even the second-most important cue–onset
f0 outranks it. For the English-dominant groups, both aspiration
and voicing are important. For both the English-dominant bilin-
guals, voicing is the most important cue, though it is just barely
more important than voicing. This is reversed for the English-
dominant trilinguals, for whom voicing is more important than
aspiration. We speculate that this discrepancy arises from want-
ing to differentiate English more from Mandarin, which is an as-
piration language. Finally, for Mandarin-dominant trilinguals,
aspiration is much more important than voicing. This group as-
signs more importance to aspiration for English than any other
group, likely because of transfer from Mandarin.
0.00
0.25
0.50
feature importance
aspiration
onset F1
closure duration
onset F1 slope
burst intensity
voicing
onset f0
vduration
place of articulation
Mandarin/Eng-dom.tri
0.00
0.25
0.50
feature importance
aspiration
onset F1
closure duration
onset F1 slope
onset f0
burst intensity
vduration
place of articulation
voicing
Mandarin/Mand-dom.tri
Figure 3: Feature importances of each participant group in
Mandarin.
The Mandarin feature importances are displayed in Figure
3. Remember that only the trilingual groups produced Mandarin
data. Unsurprisingly, aspiration is by far the most important
feature for both groups. Surprisingly, it is more important for
the English-dominant group than for the Mandarin-dominant
group.
This lends itself to our speculation for why voicing
is more important for classifying the stops in these speakers’
English. The English and Mandarin feature importances for
English-dominant trilinguals place English and Mandarin fur-
ther apart on the voicing to aspiration spectrum.
Integrating across the multilingual groups, we confirm that
Malay is a voicing language, Mandarin is an aspiration lan-
guage, and English is variably somewhere in between. We hy-
pothesized that this variability might allow for secondary cues
to be more predictive in English than for Malay and Mandarin.
We tested this by training random forests with all features but
voicing and aspiration. The accuracies are reported in Table
2. Notice that the average accuracy decrease (bottom row) is
lower for English (average of 0.12) than for Malay (0.1925) or
for Mandarin (0.19). This is evidence in support of our hypoth-
esis. Additionally, onset f0 seems to be a consistently important
secondary cue in English for all groups, only ranked behind as-
piration and voicing.
4. Discussion
We conclude that early multilinguals in language contact set-
tings are indeed good at keeping distinct categories apart. In
the face of three typologically different stop voicing contrasts,
multilingual speakers of Malay, English, and Mandarin do not
apply wholesale the contrast from one language to another.
These results corroborate previous findings of early multilin-
guals [5, 6, 16] as well as [1]’s theory of perceived dissimilarity.
Despite language-specific productions by all groups, we
still see variation resulting from crosslinguistic influence across
a highly multilingual society. In Malay, the importance of voic-
ing as a correlate decreases for the Mandarin-dominant group
compared to the other groups.
In English, while English-
dominant groups rely on both aspiration and voicing, the Malay-
dominant group utilizes voicing more, while the Mandarin-
dominant group utilizes aspiration more. Theories of socially-
conditioned variation [32, 33, 34] would also then predict that in
a contact setting like Malaysia, there exist phonetic cues that lis-
teners can rely on to identify a speaker’s language background.
This also ties to further questions of phonetic adaptation in a
contact setting.
Finally, through our random forest analysis, we show that
voicing is a salient correlate in Malaysian English alongside as-
piration. This accounts for discrepancies in reported aspiration
and voicing patterns in Malaysian English [18, 14]. In addition,
the availability of both correlates results in dominance-driven
variation being more salient in English. This means that in nat-
ural settings, we would expect more variation in the produc-
tion of /b,d,g/ and /p,t,k/ in Malaysian English over Malay and
Mandarin. Accordingly, we predicted that there might also be
a stronger reliance on secondary cues for perceiving stop voic-
ing in Malaysian English. Although perceptual experiments are
needed to confirm this, we find that random forest classification
accuracy decreases less for English than for the other languages
when voicing and aspiration are not available cues. This sug-
gests that secondary correlates such as onset f0 play a salient
role in the voicing contrast of Malaysian English.
119

5. Acknowledgments
Data collection for this project was supported by the National
University of Singapore Graduate Research Support Scheme
and the Student Project Fund from the NUS Department of En-
glish, Linguistics, and Theatre Studies’ awarded to the first au-
thor. We would like to thank Rebecca Starr, Jianjing Kuang,
Meredith Tamminga, and Marlyse Baptista, as well as the NUS
Sociolinguistics Reading Group and the Penn Phonetics Lab for
their insightful comments and suggestions. We also thank An-
drew Zhu for helpful discussions about algorithm details.
6. References
[1] J. E. Flege and O.-S. Bohn, “The revised speech learning model
(slm-r),” Second language speech learning: Theoretical and em-
pirical progress, vol. 10, no. 9781108886901.002, 2021.
[2] C. T. Best and M. D. Tyler, “Nonnative and second-language
speech perception: Commonalities and complementarities,” in
Language experience in second language speech learning: In
honor of James Emil Flege.
John Benjamins Publishing Com-
pany, 2008, pp. 13–34.
[3] P. K. Kuhl, B. T. Conboy, S. Coffey-Corina, D. Padden,
M. Rivera-Gaxiola, and T. Nelson, “Phonetic learning as a path-
way to language: new data and native language magnet theory
expanded (nlm-e),” Philosophical Transactions of the Royal So-
ciety B: Biological Sciences, vol. 363, no. 1493, pp. 979–1000,
2008.
[4] A. A. MacLeod and C. Stoel-Gammon, “Are bilinguals different?
what vot tells us about simultaneous bilinguals,” Journal of Mul-
tilingual Communication Disorders, vol. 3, no. 2, pp. 118–127,
2005.
[5] M. Geiss, S. Gumbsheimer, A. Lloyd-Smith, S. Schmid, and
T. Kupisch, “Voice onset time in multilingual speakers: Italian
heritage speakers in germany with l3 english,” Studies in Second
Language Acquisition, vol. 44, no. 2, pp. 435–459, 2022.
[6] J. Schertz, K. Carbonell, and A. J. Lotto, “Language specificity
in phonetic cue weighting: Monolingual and bilingual perception
of the stop voicing contrast in english and spanish,” Phonetica,
vol. 77, no. 3, pp. 186–208, 2020.
[7] C. Nagle, M. M. Baese-Berk, C. Diantoro, and H. Kim, “How
good does this sound? examining listeners’ second language pro-
ficiency and their perception of category goodness in their native
language,” Languages, vol. 8, no. 1, p. 43, 2023.
[8] Department of Statistics Malaysia, “The Population of Malaysia,”
https://open.dosm.gov.my/dashboard/population, accessed: 2025-
02-19.
[9] L. Baskaran, “Malaysian english: Phonology,” A handbook of va-
rieties of English, vol. 1, pp. 1034–46, 2004.
[10] E. W. Schneider, “Evolutionary patterns of new englishes and the
special case of malaysian english,” Asian Englishes, vol. 6, no. 2,
pp. 44–63, 2003.
[11] A. Hashim, “Malaysian english,” The handbook of asian en-
glishes, pp. 373–397, 2020.
[12] R. Vollmann and T. W. Soon, “Chinese identities in multilingual
malaysia,” Grazer Linguistische Studien, vol. 89, pp. 35–61, 2018.
[13] I. M. Naji and M. K. David, “Markers of ethnic identity: Focus
on the malaysian tamil community,” International Journal of the
Sociology of Language, vol. 161, pp. 91–102, 2003.
[14] A. H. Shahidi and R. Aman, “An acoustical study of english plo-
sives in word initial position produced by malays,” 3L, Language,
Linguistics, Literature, vol. 17, no. 2, 2011.
[15] B. A. Hamid, C. J. Yee, and H. M. Ibrahim, “Acoustic analy-
sis of voicing contrast in malay word-initial plosives produced
by mandarin-speaking children.” Pertanika Journal of Social Sci-
ences & Humanities, vol. 30, no. 4, 2022.
[16] C. B. Chang, Y. Yao, E. F. Haynes, and R. Rhodes, “Production of
phonetic and phonological contrast by heritage speakers of man-
darin,” The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 129,
no. 6, pp. 3964–3980, 2011.
[17] K.-Y. Chao, G. Khattab, and L.-m. Chen, “Comparison of vot pat-
terns in mandarin chinese and in english,” in 4th Annual Hawaii
International Conference on Arts and Humanities, 2006, pp. 840–
859.
[18] B. K. Ng and P. S. Chiew, “L1 influence on stop consonant pro-
duction: A case study of malaysian mandarin-english bilinguals,”
Asian Englishes, vol. 26, no. 2, pp. 310–336, 2024.
[19] L. Lisker and A. S. Abramson, “A cross-language study of voicing
in initial stops: Acoustical measurements,” Word, vol. 20, no. 3,
pp. 384–422, 1964.
[20] L. Davidson, “Variability in the implementation of voicing in
american english obstruents,” Journal of Phonetics, vol. 54, pp.
35–50, 2016.
[21] D. Deterding and F. Nolan, “Aspiration and voicing of chi-
nese and english plosives,” in Proceedings of the 16th interna-
tional congress of phonetic sciences.
Universit¨at des Saarlandes
Saarbr¨ucken Germany, 2007, pp. 385–388.
[22] G. J. Docherty, The timing of voicing in British English obstru-
ents.
Walter de Gruyter, 1992, no. 9.
[23] H. S. Phoon, A. C. Abdullah, and M. Maclagan, “The consonant
realizations of malay-, chinese-and indian-influenced malaysian
english,” Australian Journal of Linguistics, vol. 33, no. 1, pp. 3–
30, 2013.
[24] T. Yamaguchi and M. Ptursson, “Voiceless stop consonants in
malaysian english: Measuring the vot values,” Asian Englishes,
vol. 15, no. 2, pp. 60–79, 2012.
[25] L. M. Gertken, M. Amengual, and D. Birdsong, “Assessing lan-
guage dominance with the bilingual language profile,” Measuring
L2 proficiency: Perspectives from SLA, vol. 208, p. 225, 2014.
[26] T. Cho and P. Ladefoged, “Variation and universals in vot: evi-
dence from 18 languages,” Journal of phonetics, vol. 27, no. 2,
pp. 207–229, 1999.
[27] K. Shimizu, “A study on vot of initial stops in english produced by
korean, thai and chinese speakers as l2 learners.” in ICPhS, 2011,
pp. 1818–1821.
[28] J. P. Kirby, D. R. Ladd et al., “Stop voicing and f0 perturbations:
Evidence from french and italian.” in ICPhS, 2015.
[29] A. Heuser and J. Kuang, “Information-theoretic hypothesis gen-
eration of relative cue weighting for the voicing contrast,” in In-
terspeech 2024, 2024, pp. 3585–3589.
[30] N. Rhee, A. Chen, and J. Kuang, “Going beyond f0: The acqui-
sition of mandarin tones,” Journal of Child Language, vol. 48,
no. 2, pp. 387–398, 2021.
[31] J. Perkins, Y. Yan, S. J. Dahm Lee, and I. University, “Using ma-
chine learning to model the three-way laryngeal contrast in ko-
rean,” in Proceedings of the 20th International Congress of Pho-
netic Sciences, 2023, pp. 783–787.
[32] K. Becker and E. L. Coggshall, “The sociolinguistics of ethnic-
ity in new york city,” Language and Linguistics Compass, vol. 3,
no. 3, pp. 751–766, 2009.
[33] M. Newman and A. Wu, ““do you sound asian when you speak en-
glish?” racial identification and voice in chinese and korean amer-
icans’ english,” American Speech, vol. 86, no. 2, pp. 152–178,
2011.
[34] R. L. Starr and B. Balasubramaniam, “Variation and change
in english/r/among tamil indian singaporeans,” World Englishes,
vol. 38, no. 4, pp. 630–643, 2019.
120

