Multimodal Dynamics of Hand Gestures and Pauses in Multiparty Interactions
Delphine Charuau, Naomi Harte
Sigmedia group, School of Engineering, Trinity College Dublin, Ireland
charuaud@tcd.ie, nharte@tcd.ie
Abstract
This study examines multimodal patterns linking hand ges-
tures and pauses in multiparty interactions, distinguishing be-
tween within-speaker pauses and between-speaker pauses. Us-
ing the MULTISIMO corpus, which includes annotated audio-
visual recordings of collaborative dialogues, we analysed, for
each category of gesture, their distribution, pause duration, and
the timing of gesture onset and offset relative to the pause. Re-
sults showed distinct gestural timing patterns involving within-
speaker and between-speaker pauses. Self-adaptors were as-
sociated with longer pauses, possibly reflecting increased cog-
nitive demands or speech planning. While syntactic position
influenced pause duration, with shorter pauses at utterance end-
ings, it did not impact gesture onset and offset. Additionally,
most pauses containing gestures occurred within utterances, re-
gardless of gesture type.
Index Terms: Multimodality, hand gestures, pauses, timing,
multiparty interaction
1. Introduction
Speech and gesture form an integrated system in human com-
munication, where hand gestures often align with speech
rhythms and prosodic structures [1][2]. Studies have demon-
strated that beat gestures are closely synchronised with pitch
accents [3][4], while representational gestures tend to coin-
cide with semantically relevant lexical content [5]. Moreover,
the presence of representational gestures in questions facili-
tates faster turn-taking, likely by providing additional seman-
tic and pragmatic cues that help interlocutors anticipate and
prepare their responses [6]. While these gestures are tightly
coupled with speech, self-adaptors have traditionally been con-
sidered non-communicative, reflecting cognitive or emotional
states rather than coordinating with speech production [7][8].
However, recent work showed that self-adaptors are more fre-
quent around turn boundaries in conversation [9], suggesting a
possible role in the regulation of turn-taking. Their distribution
may therefore not be entirely random and could reflect underly-
ing mechanisms that contribute to turn coordination.
Silent pauses fulfill multiple functions in conversation, in-
cluding discourse structuring, speech planning, and turn-taking
regulation. Within a speaker’s turn, they contribute to struc-
turing utterances by marking syntactic and semantic units [10],
signal hesitation or speech planning [11]. In turn-taking mech-
anisms, their duration and location influence speaker transitions
and floor retention [12][13]. Unlike filled pauses, which ac-
tively manage listener attention, silent pauses are more tightly
linked to syntactic and prosodic constraints.
Although gestures are tightly coupled with rhythm and
prosody, their dynamics during pauses has received less atten-
tion. While some studies suggest that gestures may persist in
certain forms during disfluencies, especially through gestural
holds [14], recent research has shown that speech and gesture
can both be suspended simultaneously during disfluencies [15].
These findings point to disfluency as more than just a verbal
phenomenon, highlighting its multimodal nature involving both
vocal and visual elements. More broadly, the coordination be-
tween gestures and pause remains less explored, particularly in
interactions where pauses not only serve cognitive and struc-
turing functions, but also act as transition points in turn-taking
dynamics.
This study investigates whether gestures exhibit distinct
timing patterns depending on whether they occur within a
speaker’s turn or at a turn transition. Additionally, we exam-
ine how discourse structure influences this coordination. By
analysing multimodal patterns, we aim to identify temporal re-
lationships that reveal how hand gestures and speech coordinate
during silences, depending on the communicative context of the
pause and its position in the discourse structure.
2. Methods
2.1. Corpus
This study is based on the MULTISIMO Corpus [16], an open-
access multimodal dataset designed for the analysis of mul-
tiparty interactions. The corpus consists of video and audio
recordings of in-person triadic interactions, where two partic-
ipants engage in a collaborative task under the supervision of a
monitor. All participants are seated around a table, allowing for
natural communication and multimodal exchanges. The data
collection was designed to capture communicative behaviours,
including speech, gestures, and other nonverbal signals.
The open-access dataset includes recordings from 39 par-
ticipants (average age: 30 y.o.), of whom 27 were non-native
and 12 native English speakers. The interactions were recorded
using high-resolution cameras and high-quality microphones to
ensure precise capture of both verbal and nonverbal cues. The
dataset contains 18 recorded sessions, all of which were fully
transcribed for speech and manually annotated for hand ges-
tures. These 18 interactions were used for this study. Each
session, lasting approximately 10 minutes, comprises an intro-
duction phase, a collaborative task that consists of responding
to three structured questions, and a conclusion phase. For this
work, only segments involving active collaboration were anal-
ysed, while introductory and concluding parts were excluded
due to limited interaction [17]. Although the task was structured
around predefined questions, participants engaged in sponta-
neous discussion, allowing for naturalistic multimodal interac-
tions.
Annotations provided with the corpus include speech
transcriptions, dialogue structures, pauses, and gestures.
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
3030
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-959

2.2. Annotation of pauses and gestures
To investigate the relationship between pauses and gestures, a
refined annotation scheme was applied. Since the original cor-
pus labeled silent phases as ’No speaker’ without distinguishing
specific pauses types, additional annotations were automatically
generated and manually verified. A total of 1103 pauses were
extracted.
2.2.1. Annotation of pauses
In this study, we distinguished between within-speaker pauses,
which occur within a speaker’s turn, and between-speaker
pauses, which are silences marking speaker transitions (turn-
taking), considering only those longer than 200 ms. Addition-
ally, pauses were automatically labeled according to their posi-
tion within the discourse structure, using complete speech tran-
scription. Thus, we distinguished pauses occurring in three lo-
cations: (1) end of a question, (2) end of an utterance, and (3)
within the utterance (mid-utterance).
2.2.2. Annotation of gestures
For each pause (within-speaker pause and between-speaker
pause), we identified whether it was accompanied by a ges-
ture produced by the speaker preceding the pause (speaker 1).
Pauses with gestures were then categorised based on the associ-
ated gesture type.
Gestures were initially annotated into five categories: beat,
deictic, iconic, symbolic, and N/A (gestures where speakers
touch their face, hair or scratch themselves). For this study,
we reclassified them into four categories: symbolic gestures,
representational gestures (grouping deictic and iconic gestures),
beat gestures, and self-adaptors (formerly N/A). This grouping
was due to the low frequency of deictic gestures during pauses.
Additionally, as all three convey semantic content related to
speech, combining them under representational gestures aligns
with previous research on these gestures [6]. No symbolic ges-
tures were observed during the pauses.
2.3. Measurements
For each pause type, we calculated the distribution of gestures
by category. We then determined their distribution across dif-
ferent positions within the discourse structure. The duration
of each within-speaker pause was measured as the interval be-
tween the end of speech and its resumption within the same turn.
The duration of each between-speaker pause was measured as
the interval between the end of one speaker’s turn and the be-
ginning of the next speaker’s turn. These measurements were
taken both with and without the presence of gesture.
To analyse the temporal relationship between gestures and
pauses, we extracted the onset and offset of each gesture rela-
tive to the boundaries of the within-speaker pause and between-
speaker pause in which it occurred. Given the variability in
pause duration, a temporal normalisation was applied. For ges-
tures initiated within the pause, the onset was normalised rel-
ative to the total duration of the pause: 0 represents the onset
of the pause, while 1 corresponds to the pause offset. For ges-
tures starting before the pause, the onset was normalised rel-
ative to the duration of the preceding interpausal speech unit.
In this case, negative values indicate gestures initiated before
the pause, with -1 representing the onset of the preceding inter-
pausal unit (i.e., the speech segment between two pauses).
A similar normalisation was applied to determine the po-
sition of the gesture offset relative to the pause boundaries. In
this system, the values 0 and 1 represent the beginning and the
end of the pause, respectively, while gestures extending beyond
the pause received values between 1 and 2, where 2 represents
a gesture ending one full pause duration after the pause itself.
2.4. Statistical analyses
To test the significance of our results, we used generalised lin-
ear mixed-effects models (GLMMs) implemented using the R
lme4 package. Given the continuous and bounded nature of
gesture onset and offset, a Gamma distribution was applied.
The dependent variables included pause duration, normalised
gesture onset and offset, while the independent variables were
pause type (between-speaker pause vs. within-speaker pause),
gesture category, and discourse structure position. To account
for individual variability and conversational context, we in-
cluded random effects for speaker 1 linguistic background (na-
tive vs. non-native), their role (moderator vs. participant) and
the section of the interaction. Yet, these random effects did
not show significant variance, indicating these factors did not
substantially impact the analysed timing variables. The signifi-
cance threshold was set at 0.05, with pairwise comparisons ad-
justed using Bonferroni correction.
3. Results
3.1. Analysis of pauses
Our dataset contains 1103 pauses, with 707 classified as
between-speaker pauses and 396 as within-speaker pauses oc-
curring within the speaker’s turn. Of the total 1103 pauses, 219
were accompanied by one gesture: 82 during between-speaker
pause (11.6 % of all between-speaker pause) and 137 during
within-speaker pauses (34.6 % of all within-speaker pauses).
Examining the types of gestures associated with pauses,
we observed that representational gesture was the most fre-
quent across both between-speaker pauses and within-speaker
pauses.
Among gestures observed in within-speaker pauses,
45.1 % were associated with a representational gesture, 28 %
with a self-adaptor, and 26.8 % with a beat gesture. Statisti-
cal analysis confirmed that representational gestures occurred
significantly more than the other categories in pauses.
For
between-speaker pauses, a similar distribution emerged, with
representational gesture remaining the most common (represen-
tational gesture = 37.3 %; self-adaptor = 33.9 %; beat gesture
= 28.8 %), but the differences between gesture types were not
significant.
Figure 1 displays the distribution of gesture-accompanied
pauses in relation to the discourse structure for both between-
speaker pauses and within-speaker pauses. Gestures were sig-
nificantly more frequent in mid-utterance compared to those oc-
curring at the end of a question or the end of an utterance. Rep-
resentational gestures occurred significantly more often than
beat gestures, while self-adaptors were evenly distributed across
all positions. Statistical analysis revealed that the type of pause
did not have a significant effect on gesture occurrence, regard-
less of its position in the discourse.
3.2. Pause duration
Figure 2 illustrates pause duration according to the types of as-
sociated gesture, as well as pauses without gestures. The pres-
ence or absence of a gesture within a pause did not significantly
impact its duration. However, when examining pauses that in-
clude a gesture, we found that within-speaker pauses with self-
3031

2.4
7.3
7.3
1.7
3.4
3.4
3.7
9.8
2.4
1.7
11.9
11.9
20.7
28
18.3
25.4
22
18.6
End of Question
End of Utterance
Mid−Utterance
Beat
Rp
S−A
Beat
Rp
S−A
Beat
Rp
S−A
0
10
20
Gesture category
Distribution (%)
Pause: 
Within−speaker
Between−speaker
Figure 1: Distribution of gestures in between-speaker pause and
within-speaker pauses according to the position in the discourse
structure. Gesture categories are Beat, Rp = Representational,
S-A = Self-adaptor
0
2
4
Within−speaker
Between−speaker
Pause type
Duration (sec)
Gesture:
Beat
Representational
Self−adaptor
No Gesture
Figure 2: Duration of pauses with gestures in between-speaker
pause and within-speaker pauses according to the type of ges-
ture.
adaptors were significantly longer than those containing a rep-
resentational gesture or beat gesture (median duration= 1.22 sec
vs. 0.756 sec and 0.830 sec, respectively; p = 0.037 ). A similar
trend was observed in between-speaker pauses, where pauses
accompanied by a self-adaptor tended to be longer than those
associated with other gesture types (self-adaptor = 1.18 sec;
representational gesture = 0.991 sec; beat gesture = 0.988 sec),
though this difference was not significant. Additionally, within-
speaker pauses containing self-adaptors showed high variability
in duration, indicating potential influences from inter-speaker
variability or specific cognitive processing demands. In con-
trast, the duration of pauses containing beat gestures or rep-
resentational gestures was relatively similar to that of pauses
without gestures, indicating that their occurrence did not affect
pause length.
Regarding location in the discourse structure, no over-
all significant effect was found on within-speaker pause and
between-speaker pause duration.
However, when examin-
ing specific interactions, we observed that for within-speaker
pauses occurring at the end of a question, those containing
a beat gesture or self-adaptor were significantly longer than
those with representational gestures (median duration: beat ges-
ture = 3.73 sec; self-adaptor = 3.80 sec; representational gesture
= 0.770 sec; p = 0.015 ).
Finally, there was no significant difference in duration be-
tween between-speaker pauses and within-speaker pauses, with
median durations of 0.92 sec and 0.931 sec, respectively. Thus,
speaker transitions did not appear to influence pause length.
−1.0
−0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
Within−speaker
Between−speaker
Relative position − Gesture Onset
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
Within−speaker
Between−speaker
Relative position − Gesture Offset
Gesture category
Beat
Representational
Self−adaptor
Figure 3: Normalised gesture onset (left) and offset (right)
positions relative to pause boundaries (start: red dot-dashed
line, end: blue dashed line), according to pause type (between-
speaker pause and within-speaker pause) and gesture category.
3.3. Gestural timing in relation to pauses
3.3.1. Relative position of gesture onset
Figure 3 displays the distribution of gesture onset values rela-
tive to pause boundaries, according to pause type and gesture
category. These values represent relative positions; therefore,
no time units are reported. Onset values lower than 0 indicate
that gestures began before the pause, during the preceding inter-
pausal unit, while values greater than 0 indicate gestures initi-
ated within the pause itself. Gestures occurring during between-
speaker pauses presented different onsets compared to those in
within-speaker pauses (p = 0.036 ).
Within-speaker pauses. Beat and representational gestures
typically began within the pause, in its first half, with me-
dian onset values of 0.24 and 0.38, respectively. Self-adaptors
tended to start before the pause, towards the end of the inter-
pausal unit (median = −0.06 ). We observed significant differ-
ences for gestures occurring in mid-utterance (p = 0.007 ). In-
deed, representational gestures and beat gestures started later
during the within-speaker pause than when they occurred at the
utterance or question boundaries, occurring closer to its cen-
ter. Self-adaptors showed the opposite pattern: while their on-
set was inside within-speaker pauses located at the utterance or
question boundaries, they were initiated before within-speaker
pauses occurring within utterances, extending from the pre-
pausal speech unit into the within-speaker pause itself (end of
a question = 0.14 ; end of an utterance = 0.43 ; end of an utter-
ance = −0.25 ).
Between-speaker pauses. Representational and beat ges-
tures generally began before the pause, meaning they were initi-
ated during the speaker’s turn. Specifically, beat gestures tended
to start towards the end of the interpausal unit (gesture onset
median = −0.04 ). Representational gestures began much earlier
(median = −0.41 ), almost at the center of the interpausal unit.
In contrast, self-adaptors started during the between-speaker
pause (median = 0.10 ), and showed high variability in timing.
The syntactic position of the pause had little effect on beat ges-
tures but strongly influenced self-adaptors (p = 0.039 ). When
turn-taking occurred within an utterance, self-adaptors started
within the between-speaker pause. However, when turn-taking
occurred at question or utterance boundaries, self-adaptors were
initiated earlier, before the start of the silence.
3.3.2. Relative position of gesture offset
Gesture offset differed significantly for between-speaker and
within-speaker pauses (p= 0.0015 ), suggesting distinct coor-
3032

dination patterns depending on whether the silence marks a
speaker transition or occurs within a turn. To better understand
these differences, we examined how gestures extended beyond
the pause depending on their category and the discourse struc-
ture in which they occurred (Figure 3).
Within-speaker pauses.
A significant proportion of rep-
resentational gestures and beat gestures extended beyond the
pause into the following interpausal unit, with median offset of
1.42 and 1.17 , respectively. In contrast, self-adaptors tended to
finish within the within-speaker pause, before its end. Addi-
tionally, we observed offset value exceeding 2, indicating that
some gestures persisted beyond the next interpausal unit, over-
lapping with subsequent pauses, interpausal unit or turns. Ges-
ture also tended to extend further when within-speaker pauses
occurred at utterance boundaries (p = 0.001 ) or within utter-
ances (p = 0.001 ). The pauses within ongoing speech did not
systematically signal a boundary for gestural activity, allowing
gestures to continue beyond the within-speaker pause.
Between-speaker pauses.
Gesture offset tended to align
with the end of the between-speaker pause.
Beat gestures
concluded at the closure of the silence (gesture offset median
= 0.88 ), just before the next speaker took the floor, while repre-
sentational gestures and self-adaptors tended to extend slightly
beyond the pause, aligning with the beginning of the follow-
ing speech unit (1.07 and 1.10 , respectively). This pattern re-
flects a stronger synchronisation with the upcoming turn, rein-
forcing the temporal coordination between gesture offset and
speech resumption.
Unlike in within-speaker pauses, loca-
tion of between-speaker pauses did not significantly influence
gesture offset in between-speaker pauses, indicating that turn-
taking constrained a regulation on gesture timing.
4. Discussion
This study examined how hand gestures align with within-
speaker and between-speaker pauses in multiparty interactions.
Our results highlight differences in gestural timing between
these two types of silences.
Among all extracted pauses, only a small proportion con-
tained hand gestures.
The majority of within-speaker and
between-speaker pauses occurred without gestures. Gestures
were more frequent mid-utterance than in utterance or ques-
tion boundaries, which may reflect their association with pauses
linked to ongoing speech planning or cognitive processing
[18][19]. Beat gestures, often associated with rhythmic empha-
sis and discourse structuring [1][20], were less frequent at the
end of utterances and questions. Self-adaptors were evenly dis-
tributed across all positions, possibly indicating a broader cog-
nitive function.
Additionally, our analysis revealed that pauses containing
self-adaptors were longer than those with representational ges-
tures and beat gestures. The duration of within-speaker pauses
and between-speaker pauses with representational gestures and
beat gestures did not differ from pauses without gestures, sug-
gesting no apparent relationship between these gestures and
pause length, unlike self-adaptors. Since longer pauses are often
associated with cognitive load, speech planning, or hesitation
[11], this reinforces the idea that self-adaptors serve as markers
of cognitive effort and speech planning [7][21].
While within-speaker pause and between-speaker pause du-
rations did not differ when accompanied by hand gestures, we
observed notable difference in gestural timing. Gestures over-
lapping with between-speaker pauses tended to begin before
the silence, confirming their strong temporal alignment with
speech. In contrast, gestures occurring during within-speaker
pauses mostly started within the silence, raising questions about
their function: do they emerge as hesitation markers, reinforc-
ing the ongoing discourse, or as anticipatory movements linked
to upcoming lexical or conceptual content? Regarding gesture
offset, we found that gestures in between-speaker pauses typi-
cally ended toward the silence’s closure, aligning with the onset
of the next speaker’s turn. This alignment suggests that gestural
termination is tightly coupled with turn transitions. In contrast,
gestures in within-speaker pauses often extended beyond the si-
lence into the following speech unit, indicating a looser syn-
chrony with the pause boundary and a potential overlap with
upcoming speech.
This study has limitations. The relatively low number of
pauses containing gestures constrains our findings. Addition-
ally, the nature of the collaborative task likely increased cog-
nitive load and speech planning demands, potentially affecting
fluency and the distribution of pauses and gestures. Future work
should consider different interaction contexts to assess the ro-
bustness of these patterns. These limitations also highlight the
need for more open-access multimodal conversational datasets
with rich annotations to support the study of gesture-speech co-
ordination in varied communicative settings.
Nonetheless, this study provides new insights into the
temporal coordination of gestures with within-speaker and
between-speaker pauses, showing distinct synchronisation pat-
terns depending on the type of silence. A more detailed anal-
ysis of gesture phases (e.g., extension, stroke, retraction) rel-
ative to pause boundaries could further refine our understand-
ing of multimodal timing mechanisms. While syntactic posi-
tion had limited influence on gesture timing overall, gestures in
mid-utterance pauses exhibited distinct patterns. Future studies
could explore different types of mid-utterance pauses — fol-
lowing filled pauses, at syntactic boundaries, or within syntactic
phrases — to better capture their role in multimodal coordina-
tion. For representational gestures, examining the position of
their semantic referent relative to the pause and gesture could
clarify whether pauses serve as cognitive planning points for
upcoming referents, or if gestures extend into the pause when
the referent has already been introduced. Similarly, given their
close ties to prosody, beat gestures should be analysed with
prosodic features, using them as an additional anchor point in
the study of gesture-pause synchronisation.
Understanding how gestures and pauses interact contributes
to a more comprehensive model of multimodal communication,
shedding light on how speakers manage turn-taking, speech
planning, and discourse structuring. These insights are particu-
larly relevant for refining multimodal dialogue systems, which
have mainly focused on speech, overlooking the rich informa-
tion conveyed by gestures and other modalities [22]. Integrating
these non-verbal cues can enhance naturalness and efficiency in
human-machine interactions.
5. Conclusion
This study highlights how the communicative function of si-
lence shapes multimodal coordination, with gestures adapting
differently in within-speaker and between-speaker pauses. Our
findings reveal distinct synchronisation patterns, where gestures
in between-speaker pauses align more closely with speech tran-
sitions, while those in within-speaker pauses show greater flexi-
bility. Future research could explore the interplay between ges-
tures, prosody, and speech content to refine our understanding
of gesture-speech synchronisation in multiparty interactions.
3033

6. Acknowledgements
This publication has emanated from research conducted with
the financial support of Taighde ´Eireann – Research Ireland un-
der Grant number 22/FFP-A/11059.
7. References
[1] D. McNeill, Hand and Mind:
What Gestures Reveal about
Thought.
University of Chicago Press: Chicago, 1992.
[2] P. Wagner, Z. Malisz, and S. Kopp, “Gesture and speech in inter-
action: An overview,” Speech Communication, vol. 57, pp. 209–
232, 2014.
[3] D. P. Loehr, “Temporal, structural, and pragmatic synchrony be-
tween intonation and gesture,” Laboratory phonology, vol. 3,
no. 1, pp. 71–89, 2012.
[4] T. Leonard and F. Cummins, “The temporal relation between beat
gestures and speech,” Language and Cognitive Processes, vol. 26,
no. 10, pp. 1457–1471, 2011.
[5] S. Kita and A. ¨Ozy¨urek, “What does cross-linguistic variation in
semantic coordination of speech and gesture reveal?: Evidence
for an interface representation of spatial thinking and speaking,”
Journal of Memory and language, vol. 48, no. 1, pp. 16–32, 2003.
[6] M. ter Bekke, L. Drijvers, and J. Holler, “Hand gestures have pre-
dictive potential during conversation: An investigation of the tim-
ing of gestures in relation to speech,” Cognitive Science, vol. 48,
no. 1, p. e13407, 2024.
[7] P. Ekman and W. V. Friesen, “The repertoire of nonverbal behav-
ior: Categories, origins, usage, and coding,” Semiotica, vol. 1,
no. 1, pp. 49–98, 1969.
[8] P. Ekman, “Emotional and conversational nonverbal signals,” in
Language, knowledge, and representation: Proceedings of the
sixth international colloquium on cognitive science (ICCS-99).
Springer, 2004, pp. 39–50.
[9] P. ˙Zywiczy´nski, S. Wacewicz, and S. Orzechowski, “Adaptors
and the turn-taking mechanism: The distribution of adaptors rel-
ative to turn borders in dyadic conversation,” Interaction Studies,
vol. 18, no. 2, pp. 276–298, 2017.
[10] I. Grosman, A. C. Simon, and L. Degand, “Variation de la dur´ee
des pauses silencieuses: impact de la syntaxe, du style de parole
et des disfluences,” Langages, no. 211, pp. 13–40, 2018.
[11] F. Goldman Eisler, Psycholinguistics: Experiments in Sponta-
neous Speech.
Academic P.
[12] M. Heldner and J. Edlund, “Pauses, gaps and overlaps in conver-
sations,” Journal of Phonetics, vol. 38, no. 4, pp. 555–568, 2010.
[13] T. Stivers, N. J. Enfield, P. Brown, C. Englert, M. Hayashi,
T. Heinemann, G. Hoymann, F. Rossano, J. P. De Ruiter, K.-E.
Yoon et al., “Universals and cultural variation in turn-taking in
conversation,” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences,
vol. 106, no. 26, pp. 10 587–10 592, 2009.
[14] M. Graziano and M. Gullberg, “When speech stops, gesture stops:
Evidence from developmental and crosslinguistic comparisons,”
Frontiers in psychology, vol. 9, p. 879, 2018.
[15] L. Kosmala, M. Candea, and A. Morgenstern, “Synchronization
of (dis) fluent speech and gesture: A multimodal approach to (dis)
fluency,” in Gesture and Speech in Interaction, Sep. 2019.
[16] M. Koutsombogera and C. Vogel, “Modeling collaborative multi-
modal behavior in group dialogues: The multisimo corpus,” in
Proceedings of the Eleventh International Conference on Lan-
guage Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2018), Miyazaki, Japan,
May 2018, pp. 2945–2951.
[17] ——, “Speech pause patterns in collaborative dialogs,” in Innova-
tions in Big Data Mining and Embedded Knowledge.
Springer
International Publishing, 2019, pp. 99–115.
[18] A. Piolat, “Localisation syntaxique des pauses et planification du
discours,” L’ann´ee psychologique, vol. 83, no. 2, pp. 377–394,
1983.
[19] H. Zhang and M. Liberman, “The syntactic, semantic, topic and
socioeconomic effects on silent pause distribution,” in Proceed-
ings of 19th International Congress of Phonetics Sciences, Aug.
2019, pp. 3378–3382.
[20] L. M. Morett, S. H. Fraundorf, and J. C. McPartland, “Eye see
what you’re saying: Contrastive use of beat gesture and pitch
accent affects online interpretation of spoken discourse.” Journal
of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition,
vol. 47, no. 9, p. 1494, 2021.
[21] M. Neff, N. Toothman, R. Bowmani, J. E. Fox Tree, and M. A.
Walker, “Don’t scratch! self-adaptors reflect emotional stability,”
in Intelligent Virtual Agents: 10th International Conference, IVA
2011, Sep. 2011, pp. 398–411.
[22] A. Addlesee, A. Eshghi, and I. Konstas, “Current challenges in
spoken dialogue systems and why they are critical for those living
with dementia,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.06644, 2019.
3034
