warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Using Neurogram Similarity Index Measure (NSIM) to Model Hearing Loss
and Cochlear Neural Degeneration
Ahsan Cheema1,2,3, Sunil Puria1,2,3
1Speech and Hearing Bioscience and Technology Program, Harvard University, Cambridge, USA
2Eaton Peabody Laboratories, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary (MEEI), Boston, USA
3Department of Otolaryngology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, USA
ahsancheema@g.harvard.edu, sunil puria@meei.harvard.edu
Abstract
Trouble hearing in noisy situations remains a common com-
plaint for both individuals with hearing loss and individuals
with normal hearing. This is hypothesized to arise due to con-
dition called: cochlear neural degeneration (CND) which can
also result in significant variabilities in hearing aids outcomes.
This paper uses computational models of auditory periphery to
simulate various hearing tasks. We present an objective method
to quantify hearing loss and CND by comparing auditory nerve
fiber responses using a Neurogram Similarity Index Measure
(NSIM). Specifically study 1, shows that NSIM can be used to
map performance of individuals with hearing loss on phoneme
recognition task with reasonable accuracy. In the study 2, we
show that NSIM is a sensitive measure that can also be used to
capture the deficits resulting from CND and can be a candidate
for noninvasive biomarker of auditory synaptopathy.
Index Terms: neurogram similarity index measure, cochlear
neural degeneration,
synaptopathy,
hearing aids,
image-
similarity
1. Introduction
Difficulty understanding speech in the presence of background
noise is one of the most common complaints of patients with
sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) [1]. Extensive research has
shown that the death of cochlear hair cells leads to hearing loss,
but it is often preceded by a loss of the synapses linking the
hair cells to the auditory-nerve fibers (cochlear neural degen-
eration). Cochlear neural degeneration (CND) can contribute
to difficulty hearing in noise and goes undetected during stan-
dard audiometric evaluations [2]. Hearing aids (HAs) remain
the standard treatment for hearing loss, but they primarily ad-
dress hearing loss due to death of cochlear cells, leaving neu-
ral deficits untreated. This limits the effectiveness of hearing
aids and can result in variability in patient outcomes. There-
fore, development of an objective measure to study the effects
of hearing loss and CND remains an essential challenge which
can help improve the design and gain compensation strategies
for hearing aids.
One of the promising approaches to arrive at an objective mea-
sures for hearing loss and CND is to simulate the response of au-
ditory nerve fibers (ANF) from a normal cochlea and a cochlea
with hearing loss using physiologically inspired auditory nerve
model (ANM) of cochlea [3] and compare differences between
the discharge patterns for the two cases. In order to study the
differences in discharge patterns of ANF Hines and Harte [4, 5]
developed a ”Neurogram Similarity Index Measure (NSIM)”
which is similar to Structural Similarity Index Measure (SSIM)
used widely in the image processing literature [6]. This mea-
sure views the time-frequency discharge patterns from auditory
nerve fibers as an image pattern called a ‘neurogram’ and can be
used to quantify the differences between ANFs from a normal
hearing cochlea with no hearing loss and a cochlea with hearing
loss. Previous studies have established NSIM as a quantitative
measure to simulate performance of normal hearing individuals
on /CVC/ phoneme recognition tasks for a range input stimulus
levels [5]. Mamun et. al. [7] improved the dynamic range for
neurogram based measures using Neurogram orthogonal poly-
nomial to map performance of normal hearing individuals, but
this study only included 1 hearing loss individual and thus was
not generalizable to study the effect of hearing loss. No previ-
ous study has comprehensively (on a large enough datasets of
individuals with hearing loss) explored the utility of neurogram
based objective measures to study the effects of hearing loss
on ANF responses and link that to the performance on speech
recognition tasks. Similarly, the effects of CND on neurogram
based metrics has also not been explored in previous literature.
In this work we present two studies that evaluate NSIM as a
metric. In Study 1, NSIM is used to evaluate performance of
individuals with varying degrees of hearing loss. In Study 2, we
use NSIM to model varying degrees of CND.
2. Methods
2.1. Phenomenological Model of Cochlea and Auditory
Nerve Fiber Response
This study used ANM [3] to simulate the responses of ANF
and generate neurogram for a given sound (.wav file) and for a
specific hearing loss profile. The model allows the simulation
of hearing loss by decreasing OHC gain and making the fre-
quency response of the cochlear filters broader [3]. The output
of the ANM is in the form of post stimulus histogram (PSTH)
which represents the spiking activity of the auditory nerve fibers
in time bins.
Each time bin in the PSTH can be converted
to frequency response and generate a neurogram, which maps
the spiking activity on a time-frequency map. The ANM al-
lowed simulation of the three different types of auditory nerve
fibers: 1) Low Spontaneous (LS) rate fibers with high thresh-
olds, 2) Medium Spontaneous (MS) rate Fibers with medium
thresholds, and 3) High Spontaneous (HS) rate fibers with low
thresholds. The summed spiking activity of all fibers can be
used to get one neurogram that represents activity for all three
ANF types in response to an acoustic stimulus, or three separate
neurograms representing each ANF fiber types. Additionally, to
capture long term and short-term properties of auditory nerve,
the model allows control of the time bins used for the PSTH
which in turn allows generation of fine timing (FT) neurograms
and mean rate (MR) neurograms.
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
823
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2458

2.2. Neurogram Similarity Index Measure:
To quantify the similarity between the normal hearing neuro-
grams and degraded hearing neurograms (neurograms from a
hearing loss cochlea), methods previously developed [6, 4] were
used to calculated NSIM. The image processing based method
Structural Similarity Index Measure (SSIM) compares lumi-
nance(l), contrast(c) and structure(s) between a reference image
and degraded image using a suitable window size [6] using Eq.
1. The constants α, β, and γ are the weighting coefficients that
are applied to weigh the different components of the similarity
equation. The coefficients C1, C2, C3 have negligible effect on
the results and are added to prevent unstable results at bound-
aries. Hines et. al [5] applied the same method and derived an
equivalent similarity measure for comparing neurograms. They
showed that for the neurograms, in the Eq. 1 contrast and com-
ponent weightings have negligible effect. This reduces Eq. 1
to Eq. 2 which is then calculated over a 3X3 gaussian window
of radius 0.5 [5, 8] and averaged over all the points in the neu-
rogram to calculate the NSIM (eq. 3). The general design of
experiments is given in Fig. 1.
SSI(r, d) = [l(r, d)]α · [c(r, d)]β · [s(r, d)]γ
(1)
where:
l(r, d) = 2µrµd + C1
µ2r + µ2
d + C1 , c(r, d) =
2σrd + C2
σ2r + σ2
d + C2 ,
s(r, d) = σrd + C3
σrσd + C3 ,
µr = mean of reference image intensity over window,
µd = mean of degraded image intensity over window,
σr = standard deviation of reference image over window,
σ2
r = variance of reference image over window,
σd = standard deviation of degraded image over window,
σ2
d = variance of degraded image over window,
σrd = covariance matrix over the window,
C1 = 0.01L,
C2 = (0.03L)2,
C3 = C2
2 ,
L = intensity range
NSI(r, d) = 2µrµd + C1
µ2r + µ2
d + C1 · σrd + C3
σrσd + C3
(2)
NSIM(r, d) =
1
N · M
N
X
f=1
M
X
t=1
NSI(r, d)
(3)
N = total frequency bins, M = total time bins
Figure 1: Design of experiment to simulate Neurogram Similar-
ity Index Measure
2.3. Study 1: Correlating phoneme-recognition-task per-
formance with NSIM
For this study, speech material selected and tested by Harris
et. al. [9, 10] was used. The speech level was administered
monoaurally at 65 dB SPL. The test consisted of presenting
/VCV/ speech stimuli with the vowel /a/ and 10 different con-
sonants combined with speech shaped noise at different signal
to ratios (SNR) found to be the most sensitive to predict hear-
ing loss [9]. In their study there were a total of 94 individuals
with hearing loss ranging between Normal hearing ( PTA = ≤
15 dB HL) to Moderate Hearing loss (PTA = 41 – 55 dB HL).
Corpus developed by Harris et. al. [10] was used here and pro-
cessed through ANM to simulate 94 hearing loss profiles that
were clinically measured by Harris et. al. Neurograms were
generated for each hearing loss profile and compared with cor-
responding normal hearing neurogram using NSIM. For each
hearing loss profile/individual, MR-NSIM and FT-NSIM were
calculated for all 10 /VCV/ from Harris et. al. and averaged
to generate average MR-NSIM and FT-NSIM for each hearing
loss profile/individual.
Average MR and FT NSIM values across all 10 phonemes and
Pure Tone Average Thresholds (PTA in dB) were used to train
support vector regression(SVR) based models to predict perfor-
mance of individuals as recorded by Harris et. al. [10] using a
threefold cross validation paradigm (Fig. 2).
2.4. Study 2: Extending NSIM to study Cochlear Neural
Degeneration (CND)
CND is characterized by loss of auditory nerve synapses which
ultimately results in less information reaching the higher order
processing centers in the brain. To simulate the performance
that can be used to predict and study CND, it is important to
select a type of stimulus that can encode the effects of CND
at the neurogram level. Additionally, all three types of fibers
have different response characteristics and are present in un-
equal numbers in an AN bundle. Therefore, to accurately study
the effect of CND, it may be important to look at neurograms
for each fiber type independently and then compare them with
the corresponding fiber type neurogram from a normal hearing
cochlea. The resulting similarity maps for each fiber type can
then be summed and averaged to get one value of similarity for
the ease of analysis. Another hypothesis related to effects of
CND is the decrease in information content in the neural sig-
nal which becomes more evident only during complex listen-
ing tasks [11]. Therefore, in order to simulate these conditions,
20 lists consisting of 10 iso-phonemic, monosyllabic common
/CVC/ words were used. There were no word repetitions across
the lists. These words were generated using Google text-to-
speech api in python [12]. After generating the wav files for
the words, they were normalized using the RMS value of the
waveforms (16 bit) and converted to pressure values using:
p =
wav
rms(wav) × 20 × 10−6 × 10
L
20
(4)
where L ∈{50, 65, 80, 95} dB SPL.
These words were presented in a range of listening levels
from 50—95 dB SPL, and difficulty conditions: 1) without any
compression or reverberation, 2) with 65% time compression,
and 3) with 65% time compression and reverberation. Audio-
metric profile shown in Table 1 and different degrees of CND
as shown in the Table 2 were used in this study. The NSIM for
each fiber type were calculated separately for all 200 words and
then averaged to get a single NSIM values for FT-neurogram
824

and MR-neurograms for each fiber type (eq. 5). As a next step,
the NSIM values for the sloping loss profile with no CND were
used as baseline values and then the effect of introducing CND
was quantified by normalizing with CND to hearing loss profile
without any CND (eq. 6).
NSIMoverall = 1
3 (NSIMLS + NSIMMS + NSIMHS)
(5)
CNDeffect = NSIMHL no CND −NSIMHL and CND
NSIMHL no CND
(6)
Table 1: Hearing Loss profile used in the study and simulated
using OHC loss in the cochlear model
Audiometric Profile
125 Hz
250 Hz
500 Hz
1000 Hz
2000 Hz
4000 Hz
8000 Hz
Sloping Loss
0
0
10
20
23
45
75
Table 2:
CND Profiles used for the the age related hear-
ing loss profile listed in Table 1. The distribution [Low-SR,
Med-SR, High-SR] = [5, 5, 12] refers to the number of low-
spontaneous-rate (LS), medium-spontaneous-rate (MS), and
high-spontaneous-rate (HS) fibers, respectively, for each sen-
sory inner hair cell for the normal cochlea with no CND.
Audiometric Profile
CND Profile
Low-SR Fibers
Med-SR Fibers
High-SR Fibers
Sloping Loss
No CND
5
5
12
20% LS MS loss
4
4
12
40% LS MS loss
3
3
12
60% LS MS loss
2
2
12
80% LS MS loss
1
1
12
100% LS MS loss
0
0
12
100% LS MS loss, 20% HS loss
0
0
10
3. Results
3.1. Study 1: Correlating phoneme-recognition-task per-
formance with NSIM
We trained support vector regression-based models (Fig. 3) to
predict performance on a phoneme recognition task using the
MR-NSIM, FT-NSIM and PTA (dB) values (Table 3). The re-
sults from the best performing model are presented in the Fig.
2C. The model presented achieved a mean squared error of
0.015 and R2 value of 0.64. The models which incorporated
both MR-NSIM and FT-NSIM features performed the better as
shown in the Table 3. There is a discrepancy between the vari-
ation of MR-NSIM and the actual performance when plotted
against pure-tone average hearing loss (dB) (Fig. 2B), partic-
ularly below 25 dB HL. MR-NSIM degrades monotonically as
hearing loss increases, whereas actual performance only begins
to decline beyond approximately 25 dB HL. We attribute this
difference to the way NSIM is calculated, which uses the ideal
(no-loss) neurogram as the reference (eq. 3) and compares it to
degraded neurograms. To address this, we do not use raw NSIM
values directly as a measure of performance; instead, we treat
them as features in our downstream SVR models (Table 3).
3.2. Study 2: Extending NSIM to study Cochlear Neural
Degeneration
Figure 3 shows the CNDeffect using Eq. 6 (with degree of
fiber loss defined in Table 2) plotted against the signal level (dB
SPL), for the three different speech types in each panel. For ev-
ery step increase in CND by 20%, there is a change in the values
Figure 2: (A) Percent-correct performance measured on 94 sub-
jects. (B) Mean Rate NSIM on the phoneme-recognition task
plotted against the Pure Tone Average (PTA) threshold hear-
ing loss (dB) for 94 subjects. (C) Performance of the support-
vector regression (SVR) predictions trained using the Mean
Rate NSIM, Fine Timing NSIM, and PTA as features resulting
in R2=0.64.
Table 3: Performance of best Performing Support Vector Re-
gression Models trained on various feature combinations to pre-
dict performance on phoneme recognition task
Features
Hyperparameters
MSE
R2
MR NSIM
{ C: 1, epsilon: 0.075, gamma: auto, kernel: rbf}
0.023
0.485
FT NSIM
{ C: 0.25, epsilon: 0.1, gamma: auto, kernel: rbf}
0.028
0.352
MR NSIM × FT NSIM
{ C: 10, epsilon: 0.05, gamma: auto, kernel: rbf}
0.018
0.588
MR NSIM × FT NSIM × PTA
{ C: 2.5, epsilon: 0.05, gamma: scale, kernel: linear}
0.0157
0.639
the CNDeffect (different colored lines) at all the stimulus lev-
els tested and all three speech types of speech material. The
greatest effect due to CND was observed at 95 dB SPL for all
speech materials. The overall effect of CND is highest for the
65% compressed speech for profiles with total loss of LS and
MS fibers (light purple). Additional loss of 20% HS fibers did
not affect the results significantly (near overlap between light
and darker purple lines).
Figure 3: Average CNDeffect calculated from MR-NSIM for
the entire speech corpus (indicated in the title of subplots) and
plotted across various signal levels (dB SPL) for Hearing Loss
profiles with varying degrees of CND as indicated by the legend.
4. Discussion
Zaar and Carney [13] predicted speech-reception thresholds
(SRTs) for subjects with normal hearing or hearing loss using
different types of speech material and speech-in-noise condi-
tions using neurograms fed into an approximate model for the
inferior colliculus (IC). Our strategy differs from [13] in that our
backend decision is based on NSIM rather than correlation on
approximate responses of IC. As such, our approach only uses
responses from the auditory periphery, which is relatively well
understood, and is free from the potential drawbacks of assump-
tions and hypotheses about processing strategies used by central
auditory brain mechanisms. Another important difference from
previous work is that the combined ANM and NSIM methods
825

have not been applied to quantify the effects and contributions
of CND.
4.1. Study 1: Correlating phoneme-recognition-task per-
formance with NSIM
In Study 1 we were able to show that SVR models trained us-
ing both the MR-NSIM, which represents the long-term sim-
ilarity in the response, and FT-NSIM, which represents short
term similarity between neurograms, performed the better when
predicting performance on the phoneme recognition task. This
shows that for a phoneme recognition task, individuals rely on
both short-term spiking differences to detect phoneme transi-
tions particularly between vowel and consonant and long term
spiking activity to track the low-frequency components in the
speech. The R2 value for the best trained model was 0.64.
The performance of the model was worst for region where there
were fewest points in the training data (Fig 2).
The results
from this study show that NSIM is a useful measure to study
and simulate performance of individuals with hearing loss and
given enough data, it can generate reliable predictions for per-
formance on phoneme recognition task. However, one caveat
remains: we observed that for lower degrees of hearing loss, the
MR NSIM values degrade but the actual performance does not
degrade (Fig. 2A,B) which suggests that there could be certain
thresholds for the raw NSIM values which must be exceeded
before the performance begins to degrade.
4.2. Study 2: Extending NSIM to study Cochlear Neural
Degeneration (CND)
In Study 2, we demonstrated that when using speech recogni-
tion tests to detect the effect of CND or synaptopathy, the high-
est differences between profiles with and without CND were
observed when the presentation level of the stimulus was high
(above 80 dB SPL), which follows from our understanding of
that at higher stimulus levels, all three types of fibers are re-
quired to encode the information, since the HS fibers with low
thresholds will be saturated and to increase the total number of
spikes, LS/MS fibers will need to be recruited. However, in the
absence of these fibers (typical CND case) no additional spiking
activity is produced resulting in lower NSIM and hence greater
difference between profiles with and without CND. It was also
observed that the maximum effect of CND was observed for
65% compressed speech without reverberation, which means
that 65% compressed speech test can be used to discriminate
CND profile from the profile without CND. Increasing the dif-
ficulty of test further by adding reverberation slightly decreases
the CNDeffect. This means that even though the difficulty of
the test will increase by adding reverberation but without any
CND discriminability benefits. This would mean more false
positives, if such a test were used as a metric to detect CND in
patients.
Another interesting observation from the Fig. 3 is that for all
speech material, the values of CNDeffect are relatively small
up to 60% LS MS Loss profile (green line), however 80% CND
profile has approximately twice the values for CNDeffect at all
levels for all profiles. This observation is similar to what Grantt
et. al. [14] observed where they saw significant reduction in
word recognition scores only after the individual had lost more
than 60% neurons. This further suggests that NSIM is a reliable
measure and can be employed as a sensitive metric for detecting
CND.
5. Conclusions and Future Directions:
Both the studies indicate that NSIM can be used as an objec-
tive metric to map performance on phoneme recognition tasks
and to detect sensory hearing loss associated outer hair cell loss
(Study 1) and it can be used to estimate CND (study 2). In study
1, we observed that for lower degrees of hearing loss, there is
difference in the trend of actual performance and raw NSIM val-
ues (Fig. 2 A,B). Future work can explore deriving thresholds
that can be applied on the raw NSIM values, so that it can be
related to the performance on speech tests. In the study 2, only
1 hearing loss profile was simulated, and future studies can use
the methods presented here to look at all commonly observed
hearing loss profiles. Additionally, average values for NSIM
were calculated by averaging NSIM for all fiber types, however,
there is no physiological evidence that differences/correlations
for all three types of fibers can be averaged. In this study aver-
age NSIM for all three fiber types simplified the analysis. Fu-
ture studies can explore deriving weighting coefficients for the
NSIM for different fiber types. Another possible future direc-
tion would be to conduct the speech tests on human subjects
with material discussed in study 2 and relate the NSIM to per-
formance measures on these tests. Having established NSIM as
an objective measure can ultimately allow deriving hearing aids
gain compensation strategy that can account for CND, which
currently remains a major challenge in hearing healthcare.
6. Acknowledgements
The authors would like to thank Dr. Stephen Neely from Boys-
town National Research Hospital for sharing the dataset used
for this study. We would also like to acknowledge our funding
sources: National Institutes of Health (NIH), National Institute
on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders grant num-
ber R01DC007910-16, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary
(MEEI) Shark Tank Research Award, and funding from Har-
vard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS).
7. References
[1] A. J. Vermiglio, S. D. Soli, D. J. Freed, and L. M. Fisher, “The
relationship between high-frequency pure-tone hearing loss, hear-
ing in noise test (HINT) thresholds, and the articulation index,” J.
Am. Acad. Audiol., vol. 23, no. 10, pp. 779–788, Nov. 2012.
[2] S. G. Kujawa and M. C. Liberman, “Adding insult to injury:
cochlear nerve degeneration after “temporary” noise-induced
hearing loss,” J. Neurosci., vol. 29, no. 45, pp. 14 077–14 085,
Nov. 2009.
[3] I. C. Bruce, Y. Erfani, and M. S. A. Zilany, “A phenomenolog-
ical model of the synapse between the inner hair cell and audi-
tory nerve: Implications of limited neurotransmitter release sites,”
Hear. Res., vol. 360, pp. 40–54, Mar. 2018.
[4] A. Hines and N. Harte, “Speech intelligibility from image pro-
cessing,” Speech Commun., vol. 52, no. 9, pp. 736–752, Sep.
2010.
[5] ——, “Speech intelligibility prediction using a neurogram simi-
larity index measure,” Speech Commun., vol. 54, no. 2, pp. 306–
320, Feb. 2012.
[6] Z. Wang, A. C. Bovik, H. R. Sheikh, and E. P. Simoncelli, “Image
quality assessment: from error visibility to structural similarity,”
IEEE Trans. Image Process., vol. 13, no. 4, pp. 600–612, Apr.
2004.
[7] N. Mamun, W. A. Jassim, and M. S. A. Zilany, “Prediction of
speech intelligibility using a neurogram orthogonal polynomial
measure (nopm),” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and
Language Processing, vol. 23, no. 4, pp. 760–773, 2015.
826

[8] C. Sloan, N. Harte, D. Kelly, A. C. Kokaram, and A. Hines, “Ob-
jective assessment of perceptual audio quality using visqolaudio,”
IEEE Transactions on Broadcasting, vol. 63, no. 4, pp. 693–705,
2017.
[9] J. J. Hajicek, S. E. Harris, and S. Neely, “Using consonant confu-
sion to predict unexplained hearing loss,” J. Acoust. Soc. Am., vol.
154, no. 4 supplement, pp. A34–A34, Oct. 2023.
[10] S. Harris, P. Hajicek, and S. Neely, “Evaluation of hearing-aid
benefit with a consonant-confusion test,” Poster presented at the
International Hearing Aids Conference 2024, 2024.
[11] M. DiNino, L. L. Holt, and B. G. Shinn-Cunningham, “Cutting
through the noise: Noise-induced cochlear synaptopathy and in-
dividual differences in speech understanding among listeners with
normal audiograms,” Ear Hear., vol. 43, no. 1, pp. 9–22, Jan.
2022.
[12] gTTS Contributors, “gtts: Google text-to-speech,” https://github.
com/pndurette/gTTS, 2024, python library for interfacing with
Google Translate’s text-to-speech API.
[13] J. Zaar and L. H. Carney, “Predicting speech intelligibility in
hearing-impaired listeners using a physiologically inspired audi-
tory model,” Hear. Res., vol. 426, no. 108553, p. 108553, Dec.
2022.
[14] K. J. Grant, A. Parthasarathy, V. Vasilkov, B. Caswell-Midwinter,
M. E. Freitas, V. de Gruttola, D. B. Polley, M. C. Liberman, and
S. F. Maison, “Predicting neural deficits in sensorineural hearing
loss from word recognition scores,” Sci. Rep., vol. 12, no. 1, p.
8929, Jun. 2022.
827

