warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
DAFMSVC: One-Shot Singing Voice Conversion with Dual Attention
Mechanism and Flow Matching
Wei Chen1,2, Binzhu Sha1, Dan Luo1, Jing Yang2, Zhuo Wang2, Fan Fan2, Zhiyong Wu1,∗
1Shenzhen International Graduate School, Tsinghua University, China
2Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., China
chenw23@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn, zywu@sz.tsinghua.edu.cn
Abstract
Singing Voice Conversion (SVC) transfers a source singer’s
timbre to a target while keeping melody and lyrics. The key
challenge in any-to-any SVC is adapting unseen speaker tim-
bres to source audio without quality degradation.
Existing
methods either face timbre leakage or fail to achieve satisfac-
tory timbre similarity and quality in the generated audio. To
address these challenges, we propose DAFMSVC, where the
self-supervised learning (SSL) features from the source audio
are replaced with the most similar SSL features from the target
audio to prevent timbre leakage. It also incorporates a dual-
cross-attention mechanism for the adaptive fusion of speaker
embeddings, melody, and linguistic content. Additionally, we
introduce a flow matching module for high-quality audio gen-
eration from the fused features. Experimental results show that
DAFMSVC significantly enhances timbre similarity and natu-
ralness, outperforming state-of-the-art methods in both subjec-
tive and objective evaluations.
Index Terms: singing voice conversion, cross-attention, flow
matching
1. Introduction
In recent years, the application of Singing Voice Conversion
(SVC) in music creation has been rapidly emerging. The goal
of any-to-any SVC is to transfer the timbre of a source song
to an unseen target singer while preserving the original content
and melody. This technology has a wide range of applications,
such as becoming an essential tool for artists and disc jockeys
in remixing, sampling, and other creative processes.
The core idea behind any-to-any SVC is to model, disentan-
gle, and utilize various speech attributes, including content, tim-
bre, and pitch. Previous SVC methods [1, 2] typically rely on
pre-trained Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) [3, 4] mod-
els or SSL based speech models [5] and Speaker Verification
(SV) [6, 7] to extract content and timbre information from the
source and target speech, respectively. These models then en-
code the extracted information, which is later decoded to recon-
struct the singing audio. Various deep generative models, such
as autoregressive models [8, 9], Generative Adversarial Net-
works (GANs) [10], Variational Autoencoders (VAEs) [11], and
diffusion models [12], are used for decoding. Despite signif-
icant advancements in speaker verification technologies, rely-
ing solely on the extracted speaker embedding vector to encom-
pass all necessary vocal information remains questionable [13].
Furthermore, effectively separating speaker characteristics from
content presents another challenge, often leading to timbre leak-
age [14], where some of the source speaker’s timbre remains in
*Corresponding author.
the converted audio. This issue is particularly prominent when
using SSL speech models to extract content features [15].
To address the issue of timbre leakage, NeuCoSVC [16]
uses an SSL based speech model to extract SSL features from
the target speaker’s reference audio and constructs a matching
pool. The SSL features from the source audio are then replaced
with the most similar features from the matching pool to achieve
timbre conversion. Since the SSL features used during the con-
version phase come directly from the target audio, NeuCoSVC
avoids the timbre leakage problem. However, when replacing
the most similar self-supervised features, it overlooks some of
the timbre information. This is because the timbre informa-
tion is scattered across the entire target set, and only a few
features are selected for replacement, resulting in incomplete
timbre information and, consequently, a decrease in conversion
similarity. Additionally, the GAN-based waveform reconstruc-
tion used in NeuCoSVC faces issues such as instability, mode
collapse, and insufficient audio generation quality [17, 18, 19].
Therefore, to further improve timbre similarity and au-
dio generation quality, this study introduces a novel any-to-
any SVC method with Dual Attention mechanism and Flow
Matching (DAFMSVC). Following NeuCoSVC, DAFMSVC
uses a matching pool strategy to prevent timbre leakage. To
enhance the timbre information in the SSL features, we intro-
duce speaker embeddings, which help capture the timbre details
scattered across the reference audio. As pointed out in [20],
speaker characteristics include not only global timbre infor-
mation but also local pronunciation variations. Furthermore,
melody, which contains pitch and loudness, is closely tied to
content. Therefore, we introduce a dual cross-attention mecha-
nism module to facilitate the adaptive fusion of speaker embed-
dings, melody, and linguistic content features. Additionally, as
demonstrated in [21, 22], flow matching techniques have been
shown to provide more stable training and higher sample qual-
ity in both image and speech generation. Building on this, we
introduce a conditional flow matching module to improve audio
quality, which is trained to predict a vector field and efficiently
models the probabilistic distribution of the target audio.
This work makes the following contributions:
• We propose DAFMSVC, a novel SVC framework that intro-
duces an innovative dual cross-attention mechanism module
with adaptive gate control to effectively capture both timbre
and melody information and improve timbre similarity.
• We introduce a conditional flow matching (CFM) module
that predicts probability density paths conditioned on timbre,
melody and content, significantly improving sample quality
compared to existing state-of-the-art methods.
• Experimental results show that our model achieves higher
timbre similarity and naturalness in both subjective and ob-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
1263
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-305

Source Waveform
Reference Waveform
Melody Extractor
SSL Model
Timbre Extractor
F0
Energy
Melody Features
Matching Strategy
SSL Model
Content
Encoder
Speaker Embeddings
Dual cross
Attention
Mechanism
Module
c
Flow
Matching
Module
Converted Waveform
t
Xt
Query
Matching Pool
❄
❄
❄
❄
c --- Concat
Xt --- Noisy sample
SSL Features
Figure 1: DAFMSVC framework. Snowflake represents the parameter that remains unchanged when training the framework.
jective evaluations.
2. Proposed Method
Figure 1 illustrates the overview of our DAFMSVC model. The
source audio is first processed by a pre-trained SSL model to
extract fixed-dimensional features that capture both linguistic
and timbre information. These SSL features are then matched
with those from the reference audio to select the phonetically
relevant ones. The selected SSL features retain the content in-
formation from the source audio while adopting the timbre of
the target speaker. These pre-matched SSL features are encoded
and passed through a dual cross-attention mechanism module,
enabling the joint utilization of content information, melody,
and target timbre representations. Finally, the output of the dual
cross-attention mechanism module is concatenated with pitch
and loudness, and fed into the conditional flow matching mod-
ule to reconstruct the converted waveform. The details of each
module will be discussed in the following sections.
2.1. Feature extraction and matching module
The module consists of two stages: 1) extracting compact fea-
tures from the audio, and 2) replacing the source audio’s SSL
features with those extracted from the reference utterances. In
the first stage, pitch values are extracted by taking the median
of three methods (PYIN1, REAPER2 and Parselmouth3). Loud-
ness features are extracted using the A-weighting mechanism of
the power spectrum [23]. These two features are concatenated
to form the melody features. A pre-trained SV model is also
used to extract speaker embeddings of the reference waveform.
Next, a pre-trained WavLM-large encoder [5] is used to extract
SSL features from the audio. Regarding the matching strategy,
following NeuCoSVC [16], we adopt the KNN method and use
the average of the last five layers of WavLM-large to search for
the K nearest features in the reference matching pool, as these
layers contain more discriminative content information [24].
The 6th layer of WavLM is then used to replace the features,
which are subsequently fed into a content encoder constructed
1https://github.com/librosa/librosa
2https://github.com/google/REAPER
3https://github.com/YannickJadoul/Parselmouth
with Feed Forward Transformer blocks [25].
2.2. Dual cross-attention mechanism module
To facilitate the adaptive utilization of the content information,
melody, and target timbre, we draw inspiration from [26] and
propose a dual cross-attention mechanism module. Figure 2
provides an overview of the attention mechanism module. Sup-
pose the input of the module is C and the speaker embeddings
and melody features denoted as S and P, respectively. CQ
refers to the hidden representation obtained through query pro-
jection and query-key normalization. The goal of timbre atten-
tion is to extract fine-grained information from the speaker em-
beddings. We use CQ as the query for attention, and the embed-
dings S as both the key and value, allowing the cross-attention
mechanism to learn and capture the speaker’s timbre from the
speaker embeddings. To improve the stability of timbre mod-
eling and progressively inject timbre information into both the
linguistic content and melody, we introduce an adaptive gating
mechanism. A learnable parameter α with zero initialization
is used to control the gating process which ensures stable and
consistent modeling of both timbre and melody. The melody
features P serve as both the key and value for melody attention,
while CQ acts as the attention query. This structure helps en-
sure better synchronization between melody variations (such as
slides and vibratos) and phoneme boundaries. The final output
O of the dual cross-attention mechanism module is given by the
following formula:
O = softmax

CQPK T
√
d

PV + tanh(α) softmax

CQSK T
√
d

SV (1)
where d is the dimension of queries, SK, SV represent the tim-
bre keys and values, while PK, PV correspond to the melody
keys and values.
Finally, the output of the dual cross-attention mechanism
module is concatenated with the melody features, and the final
fused features are fed into the CFM module.
2.3. Conditional flow matching module
To strike an optimal balance between generation quality and
real-time performance, we introduce the conditional flow
matching (CFM) module with reference to [19]. Flow matching
1264

Speaker Embeddings
Melody Features
Input
RMSNorm
Query Proj.
LayerNorm
CQ
Key/Value Proj.
Key/Value Proj.
SV
SK
PV
PK
LayerNorm
LayerNorm
Softmax
Softmax
Linear Proj.
RMSNorm
Feed Forward
×3
Output
tanh(α)
Figure 2: Dual cross-attention mechanism module.
presents an innovative Ordinary Differential Equation (ODE)-
based framework for generative modeling and domain transfer.
It introduces a method to learn a mapping that connects two dis-
tributions, π0 and π1 on Rd, based on empirical observations:
dZt
dt = v (Zt, t)
(2)
where Z0 ∼π0, such that Z1 ∼π1, v : Rd × [0, 1] →Rd
represents a velocity field. The training objective is defined as:
Lrf = EX0∼π0,(X1,C)∼D
hR 1
0 ||(X1 −X0)/σ −ν(Xt, t|C)/σ||2dt
i
(3)
where σ =
p
Var1(X1 −X0), Xt = tX1 + (1 −t)X0 repre-
sents a time-differentiable interpolation between X0 and X1 in
the time domain, C represents conditional input mentioned in
section 2.2, D represents the dataset with paired X1 and C, and
Var1 calculates the variance along the feature dimension. Addi-
tionally, the model employs multi-band strategies [27] to accel-
erate audio generation. To mitigate inconsistencies in subband
predictions, Overlap loss Loverlap is introduced, while STFT
loss Lstft is used to reduce artifacts in the presence of back-
ground noise. The overall training loss of DAFMSVC is:
L = Lrf + λ × (Loverlap + Lstft)
(4)
where λ is set to 0.01, following the parameter settings in [19].
Finally, We sample from the standard Gaussian distribution
as the initial condition at t = 0. By using 10 Euler steps, we ap-
proximate the solution to the ODE, effectively generating sam-
ples that match the target distribution.
3. Experimental Setup
3.1. Dataset
Experiments are conducted on the OpenSinger dataset [28],
which is recorded in a professional studio and contains 50 hours
of high-quality Chinese singing. This dataset includes 28 male
singers and 48 female singers, with the audio saved in wav for-
mat at a sampling rate of 44.1 kHz. The singing of two male
and two female singers is reserved for the test set, while the
remaining recordings are randomly split into the training and
validation sets with a 9:1 ratio.
3.2. Training conditions
Pitch and loudness features are extracted from 24kHz audio
with a hop size of 240. Notably, to adapt the pitch to the tar-
get speaker’s vocal range, the source pitch values are scaled
by a shift factor during conversion. This factor is the ratio of
the median pitch in the target audio to that in the source au-
dio. We utilize a pre-trained state-of-the-art SV model4 , called
CAM++ [7], to extract speaker embeddings.
This model is
trained on a large Chinese speaker dataset, which includes ap-
proximately 200k speakers. A pre-trained WavLM-Large [5] is
used to extract 1024-dimensional SSL features. In the match-
ing strategy, the k-nearest method is employed with k = 4, and
cosine similarity is used as the distance metric, following [16].
The CFM module, which consists of a ConvNeXtV2 [29] back-
bone, takes the fused features as input and generates 24kHz
singing audio. The training setup strictly follows [19], except
for the number of channels in the conditional input, which is
258. The AdamW optimizer with an initial learning rate of
0.002 is used for training. During the inference stage, we sam-
ple the waveform using 10 Euler steps within the CFM module,
with a guidance scale of 1.0 applied.
3.3. Baselines
We evaluate the one-shot SVC performance of DAFMSVC by
comparing it with three state-of-the-art systems: NeuCoSVC,
DDSP-SVC, and So-VITS-SVC. NeuCoSVC5 is a novel neural
concatenation-based approach for one-shot SVC, which adopts
the FastSVC architecture to generate synthesized audio. DDSP-
SVC6 is an end-to-end singing voice conversion system based
on Differentiable Digital Signal Processing (DDSP) that uses
a cascade diffusion model to reconstruct high-quality audio.
So-VITS-SVC7 is a popular open-source voice conversion tool
based on VITS [30], which uses a Conditional Variational Au-
toencoder combined with Adversarial Learning. To ensure a fair
comparison, all methods are trained on the same dataset. Audio
samples can be found in demo pages8.
3.4. Evaluation metrics
We conduct both objective and subjective evaluations to assess
the model performance.
For the objective evaluation, we use cosine distance of ex-
tracted speaker embeddings (singer similarity, SSIM) to assess
singer similarity, F0CORR and Loudness RMSE to measure the
naturalness of the converted waveforms [31], and Mel Cepstral
4https://www.modelscope.cn/models/iic/speech campplus sv zh-
cn 16k-common/summary
5https://github.com/thuhcsi/NeuCoSVC
6https://github.com/yxlllc/DDSP-SVC
7https://github.com/svc-develop-team/so-vits-svc
8https://wei-chan2022.github.io/DAFMSVC/
1265

Table 1: Comparison with state-of-the-art methods
Method
F0CORR↑
Loudness RMSE↓
SSIM↑
MCD↓
MOS-Naturalness↑
MOS-Similarity↑
Source
-
-
-
-
4.69±0.07
-
DDSP-SVC
0.909
0.129
0.600
8.941
2.02±0.09
2.07±0.08
So-VITS-SVC
0.946
0.155
0.602
8.227
3.45±0.10
3.06±0.10
NeuCoSVC
0.942
0.114
0.692
8.634
3.47±0.11
3.48±0.11
DAFMSVC
0.948
0.067
0.754
7.220
3.80±0.09
3.58±0.11
MOS results are reported with 95% confidence intervals.
Distortion (MCD) to evaluate audio quality. 1) SSIM: we use
the pre-trained CAM++ speaker verification model [7] to eval-
uate the singer similarity between the generated samples and
the target speaker reference. 2) F0CORR: we evaluate pitch ac-
curacy by calculating the Pearson correlation coefficient of the
F0 contours between the source and converted audio, using dy-
namic time warping (DTW) to align the sequences before com-
parison. Note that the F0 sequence is normalized using min-
max scaling before processing. 3) Loudness RMSE: we com-
pute the root mean square error (RMSE) in loudness between
the converted waveform and the source waveform, as the source
waveform contains the real speaker’s fine-grained prosody and
naturalness. 3) MCD: we adopt the Pysptk tools to extract the
Mel-frequency cepstral coefficients (MFCCs) and use DTW to
align the target and converted audio parameters. A lower value
indicates higher similarity.
For subjective evaluation, we conduct a Mean Opinion
Score (MOS) test with a 5-point scale (1 - bad, 2 - poor, 3 -
fair, 4 - good, 5 - excellent). We invite 15 volunteers with ex-
tensive knowledge of music theory to assess the similarity and
naturalness of the audio.
4. Experimental Results
4.1. Comparison with state-of-the-art methods
In the objective experiments, we randomly select 37 audio sam-
ples from the validation set and convert them to four unseen tar-
get speakers in the test set, resulting in a total of 148 samples.
Table 1 presents the results of objective evaluations. Our model
outperforms the baseline systems across all metrics, especially
in singer similarity.
NeuCoSVC effectively prevents timbre
leakage through a SSL features replacement strategy, improv-
ing timbre similarity. Building upon this, DAFMSVC uses a
dual cross-attention mechanism module to capture fine-grained
timbre details from the speaker embeddings vectors and melody
information, leading to a significant enhancement in singer sim-
ilarity and naturalness.
In terms of MCD, DAFMSVC also
achieves a lower score, indicating higher generation quality, ow-
ing to the excellent generation capability of the CFM module.
In comparison, NeuCoSVC’s audio quality is slightly inferior to
that of So-VITS-SVC, possibly due to its GAN-based FastSVC
architecture for audio generation [19].
In the subjective experiments, we select 20 audio samples
for testing, with five converted samples for each unseen speaker.
As shown in Table 1, the results demonstrate that, compared to
methods that use speaker embeddings or SSL features replace-
ment for timbre conversion, DAFMSVC achieves better simi-
larity and naturalness.
4.2. Ablation study
In this subsection, we conduct ablation studies to evaluate the
contribution of each component to timbre modeling and natu-
Table 2: The ablation study results
Model
F0CORR↑
Loudness RMSE↓
SSIM↑MCD↓
DAFMSVC
0.948
0.067
0.754
7.220
- spk&att
0.947
0.109
0.709
7.888
- att
0.945
0.103
0.710
8.129
ralness. Specifically, we perform the following experiments: 1)
without speaker embeddings and the dual cross-attention mech-
anism module, where only the encoded content and melody fea-
tures are concatenated and passed into the CFM module, re-
ferred to as “-spk&att”; 2) using speaker embeddings but with-
out the dual cross-attention mechanism module, where the in-
dividual features are simply concatenated and passed into the
dual cross-attention mechanism module, referred to as “-att”.
As shown in Table 2, when the speaker embeddings input is
removed, the timbre similarity significantly decreases. This oc-
curs because, during the SSL features replacement, only a small
amount of scattered timbre information is incorporated into the
SSL features. As a result, the model is unable to fully capture
the target speaker’s characteristics, leading to a decrease in tim-
bre similarity. Notably, although the timbre similarity is lower
than that of DAFMSVC, the performance still surpasses Neu-
CoSVC (as in Table 1), due to the powerful generative capabil-
ity of the CFM module. When the dual cross-attention mech-
anism module is removed, both SSIM and MCD metrics de-
grade, indicating that the simple concatenation of features hin-
ders the CFM from learning how to reconstruct the audio ef-
fectively. In contrast, the attention mechanism helps the model
more effectively capture the intricate relationships between tim-
bre, melody, and content, leading to more precise and coherent
audio generation.
5. Conclusion
In this paper, we presents DAFMSVC, a novel any-to-any SVC
framework that enhances timbre similarity and improve audio
quality. By combining SSL features with a matching pool strat-
egy, DAFMSVC effectively prevents timbre leakage. It also
employs a dual cross-attention mechanism module to adaptively
fuse speaker embeddings, pitch, and linguistic content features,
generating high-quality fused representations that address the
timbre similarity issues caused by SSL features replacement.
Additionally, the introduction of the flow matching module sig-
nificantly improves the reconstruction of high-quality audio.
Experimental results show that DAFMSVC achieves superior
timbre similarity and naturalness in both subjective and objec-
tive evaluations, outperforming existing state-of-the-art meth-
ods. Future work will focus on further improving the model’s
efficiency and exploring the application of our proposed method
in complex noisy environments.
1266

6. Acknowledgements
This work is supported by National Natural Science Founda-
tion of China (62076144) and Shenzhen Science and Technol-
ogy Program (JCYJ20220818101014030).
7. References
[1] Z. Li, B. Tang, X. Yin, Y. Wan, L. Xu, C. Shen, and Z. Ma,
“Ppg-based singing voice conversion with adversarial represen-
tation learning,” in ICASSP 2021-2021 IEEE International Con-
ference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2021, pp. 7073–7077.
[2] L. Sun, K. Li, H. Wang, S. Kang, and H. Meng, “Phonetic poste-
riorgrams for many-to-one voice conversion without parallel data
training,” in 2016 IEEE International Conference on Multimedia
and Expo (ICME).
IEEE, 2016, pp. 1–6.
[3] A. Gulati, J. Qin, C.-C. Chiu, N. Parmar, Y. Zhang, J. Yu,
W. Han, S. Wang, Z. Zhang, Y. Wu, and R. Pang, “Conformer:
Convolution-augmented transformer for speech recognition,” in
Interspeech 2020, 2020, pp. 5036–5040.
[4] Y. Yang, Y. Pan, J. Yin, J. Han, L. Ma, and H. Lu, “Hybridformer:
Improving squeezeformer with hybrid attention and nsr mecha-
nism,” in ICASSP 2023-2023 IEEE International Conference on
Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2023,
pp. 1–5.
[5] S. Chen, C. Wang, Z. Chen, Y. Wu, S. Liu, Z. Chen, J. Li,
N. Kanda, T. Yoshioka, X. Xiao et al., “Wavlm: Large-scale self-
supervised pre-training for full stack speech processing,” IEEE
Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing, vol. 16, no. 6,
pp. 1505–1518, 2022.
[6] B. Desplanques, J. Thienpondt, and K. Demuynck, “Ecapa-tdnn:
Emphasized channel attention, propagation and aggregation in
tdnn based speaker verification,” in Interspeech 2020, 2020, pp.
3830–3834.
[7] H. Wang, S. Zheng, Y. Chen, L. Cheng, and Q. Chen, “Cam++: A
fast and efficient network for speaker verification using context-
aware masking,” in Interspeech 2023, 2023, pp. 5301–5305.
[8] L. Zhang, C. Yu, H. Lu, C. Weng, C. Zhang, Y. Wu, X. Xie,
Z. Li, and D. Yu, “Durian-sc: Duration informed attention net-
work based singing voice conversion system,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2008.03009, 2020.
[9] N. Takahashi, M. K. Singh, and Y. Mitsufuji, “Hierarchical
disentangled representation learning for singing voice conver-
sion,” in 2021 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks
(IJCNN).
IEEE, 2021, pp. 1–7.
[10] S. Liu, Y. Cao, N. Hu, D. Su, and H. Meng, “Fastsvc: Fast cross-
domain singing voice conversion with feature-wise linear modu-
lation,” in 2021 ieee international conference on multimedia and
expo (icme).
IEEE, 2021, pp. 1–6.
[11] Y.-J. Luo, C.-C. Hsu, K. Agres, and D. Herremans, “Singing voice
conversion with disentangled representations of singer and vocal
technique using variational autoencoders,” in ICASSP 2020-2020
IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2020, pp. 3277–3281.
[12] S. Liu, Y. Cao, D. Su, and H. Meng, “Diffsvc: A diffusion proba-
bilistic model for singing voice conversion,” in 2021 IEEE Auto-
matic Speech Recognition and Understanding Workshop (ASRU).
IEEE, 2021, pp. 741–748.
[13] X. Li, S. Liu, and Y. Shan, “A hierarchical speaker representation
framework for one-shot singing voice conversion,” in Interspeech
2022, 2022, pp. 4307–4311.
[14] S. Chen, Y. Wu, C. Wang, S. Liu, Z. Chen, P. Wang, G. Liu, J. Li,
J. Wu, X. Yu, and F. Wei, “Why does self-supervised learning for
speech recognition benefit speaker recognition?” in Interspeech
2022, 2022, pp. 3699–3703.
[15] K. Qian, Y. Zhang, H. Gao, J. Ni, C.-I. Lai, D. Cox, M. Hasegawa-
Johnson, and S. Chang, “Contentvec:
An improved self-
supervised speech representation by disentangling speakers,” in
International Conference on Machine Learning.
PMLR, 2022,
pp. 18 003–18 017.
[16] B. Sha, X. Li, Z. Wu, Y. Shan, and H. Meng, “neural concatena-
tive singing voice conversion: rethinking concatenation-based ap-
proach for one-shot singing voice conversion,” in ICASSP 2024-
2024 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2024, pp. 12 577–12 581.
[17] B. Bai, F. Wang, Y. Gao, and Y. Li, “Spa-svc: Self-supervised
pitch augmentation for singing voice conversion,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.05692, 2024.
[18] Y. Zhou and X. Lu, “Hifi-svc: Fast high fidelity cross-domain
singing voice conversion,” in ICASSP 2022 - 2022 IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP), 2022, pp. 6667–6671.
[19] P. Liu, D. Dai, and Z. Wu, “Rfwave:
Multi-band recti-
fied flow for audio waveform reconstruction,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2403.05010, 2024.
[20] Y. Zhou, C. Song, X. Li, L. Zhang, Z. Wu, Y. Bian, D. Su, and
H. Meng, “Content-dependent fine-grained speaker embedding
for zero-shot speaker adaptation in text-to-speech synthesis,” in
Interspeech 2022, 2022, pp. 2573–2577.
[21] P. Esser, S. Kulal, A. Blattmann, R. Entezari, J. M¨uller, H. Saini,
Y. Levi, D. Lorenz, A. Sauer, F. Boesel et al., “Scaling rectified
flow transformers for high-resolution image synthesis,” in Forty-
first International Conference on Machine Learning, 2024.
[22] M. Le, A. Vyas, B. Shi, B. Karrer, L. Sari, R. Moritz,
M. Williamson, V. Manohar, Y. Adi, J. Mahadeokar et al.,
“Voicebox: Text-guided multilingual universal speech generation
at scale,” Advances in neural information processing systems,
vol. 36, 2024.
[23] C. Meyer-Bisch, “Measuring noise,” Medecine Sciences: M/S,
vol. 21, no. 5, pp. 546–550, 2005.
[24] G.-T. Lin, C.-L. Feng, W.-P. Huang, Y. Tseng, T.-H. Lin, C.-A. Li,
H.-y. Lee, and N. G. Ward, “On the utility of self-supervised mod-
els for prosody-related tasks,” in 2022 IEEE Spoken Language
Technology Workshop (SLT).
IEEE, 2023, pp. 1104–1111.
[25] Y. Ren, C. Hu, X. Tan, T. Qin, S. Zhao, Z. Zhao, and T.-Y. Liu,
“Fastspeech 2: Fast and high-quality end-to-end text to speech,”
in International Conference on Learning Representations.
[26] J. Yao, Y. Yan, Y. Pan, Z. Ning, J. Ye, H. Zhou, and L. Xie, “Sta-
blevc: Style controllable zero-shot voice conversion with condi-
tional flow matching,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.04724, 2024.
[27] G. Yang, S. Yang, K. Liu, P. Fang, W. Chen, and L. Xie, “Multi-
band melgan: Faster waveform generation for high-quality text-
to-speech,” in 2021 IEEE Spoken Language Technology Workshop
(SLT).
IEEE, 2021, pp. 492–498.
[28] R. Huang, F. Chen, Y. Ren, J. Liu, C. Cui, and Z. Zhao, “Multi-
singer: Fast multi-singer singing voice vocoder with a large-scale
corpus,” in Proceedings of the 29th ACM International Confer-
ence on Multimedia, 2021, pp. 3945–3954.
[29] S. Woo, S. Debnath, R. Hu, X. Chen, Z. Liu, I. S. Kweon, and
S. Xie, “Convnext v2: Co-designing and scaling convnets with
masked autoencoders,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Con-
ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2023, pp.
16 133–16 142.
[30] J. Kim, J. Kong, and J. Son, “Conditional variational autoencoder
with adversarial learning for end-to-end text-to-speech,” in Inter-
national Conference on Machine Learning.
PMLR, 2021, pp.
5530–5540.
[31] W.-C. Huang, L. P. Violeta, S. Liu, J. Shi, and T. Toda, “The
singing voice conversion challenge 2023,” in 2023 IEEE Auto-
matic Speech Recognition and Understanding Workshop (ASRU).
IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–8.
1267

