warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
The prosodic characteristics of Standard Chinese rhetorical questions in 
naturalistic settings 
Shuwen Chen1, Qingke Sun1, Yue Huang1, Yingyi Luo1 
1Institute of Linguistics, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences 
chensw@cass.org.cn, Hekuang_e2@163.com, huangyue_ucr2021@163.com, 
luoyingyi@cass.org.cn 
 
 
Abstract 
The current study investigated the prosodic features of 
rhetorical questions in Standard Chinese within naturalistic 
settings, utilizing data collected from 103 native Mandarin 
speakers. String-identical information-seeking questions (ISQs) 
and rhetorical questions (RQs) were recorded through an online 
platform, ensuring a diverse and representative sample. The 
results revealed that, when freely reading aloud to the phone, 
speakers tended to convey rhetorical meaning by either shifting 
prominence toward or enhancing the prominence of the verb or 
modal verb. Acoustically, the prominent verbs were 
characterized by higher pitch and longer duration. In other 
positions, phonetic markers varied depending on the sentence 
structure. Our large-sample findings highlight the interface of 
prosody and syntax in conveying communicative intention. 
This research also addresses a critical gap by moving beyond 
laboratory-based data to examine speech phenomena in more 
ecologically valid contexts. 
Index Terms:  rhetorical questions, natural setting, prosodic 
characteristics, Standard Chinese 
1. Introduction 
Questions can be used to serve distinct communicative 
functions: they may be used to seek information from the 
interlocutor (referred to as information-seeking questions, or 
ISQs) or to make assertions, express dissatisfaction, or convey 
rhetorical meaning (referred to as rhetorical questions, or RQs). 
Notably, prosody plays a critical role in differentiating 
communicative meanings in speech, particularly when the 
compositional semantics of the utterances are identical [1, 2, 4, 
6]. While the importance of prosody is well established, the 
specific prosodic characteristics distinguishing RQs from ISQs 
remain 
controversial. 
Previous 
studies 
have 
yielded 
inconsistent findings, largely due to insufficient attention to two 
key factors: the influence of syntactic structure and individual 
variability. To address these limitations, the current study 
examines the prosodic marking of rhetorical expression in 
Standard Chinese in a more ecologically valid context, by using 
daily-used polar-questions with different structures and 
recruiting a larger and more diverse sample of speakers.  
Previous research across languages has observed  phonetic 
differences between ISQs and RQs, despite the diverse acoustic 
profiles involved. With respect to pitch, evidence from stress 
languages reveal that RQs and ISQs differ in the type and the 
position of nuclear pitch, as well as the types of boundary tones 
[1]. Japanese, a pitch accent language, marks rhetorical 
meanings with sentence-initial f0 lowering, sentence-final f0 
raising [2]. For tonal languages, the use of pitch to mark 
rhetorical meanings is more complex due to the dual role of 
pitch in distinguishing lexical tones and conveying intonation. 
A study focusing on the sentence-final particle (SFP) in 
Cantonese wh-questions found an increased f0 rising for 
positive RQs (where the answer is known to both parties and 
specific) compared to ISQs, but not for negative RQs (where 
the answer is supposed to be “nobody” ), which yet had a 
numerically lower pitch [3]. In Standard Chinese, a relatively 
consistent finding is that RQs tend to end with a falling contour 
[4, 5]. However, specific prosodic patterns remain controversial. 
Zahner-Ritter et al.[4] observed that both polar questions started 
with yǒurén (“anyone”) and wh-questions with shéi (“who”) are 
produced with an overall lower f0 for RQs. However, Lo and 
Kiss [5] found that RQs started with yǒushéi (“who”) are 
marked by a higher f0 at the beginning and a lower f0 in the SFP. 
In addition, duration has consistently been reported to be 
globally longer for RQs across various language types (stress 
languages: English [1] and German [6]; pitch accent languages: 
Japanese [2]; tonal languages: Cantonese [3] and Standard 
Chinese [4]). Specifically, evidence from Standard Chinese 
highlighted that RQs are globally lengthened compared to ISQs, 
except at the SFP [4, 5].  
To interpret the convergence and discrepancies among the 
findings, we consider that two issues should be revisited. Firstly, 
questions that use interrogative words followed by a Verb and 
an Object Noun are intensively concerned [1, 3, 4, 5], but such 
constructions inherently have their focused element placed on 
the preceding part of the sentence. Given the apparent impact 
of grammatical structure on intonation, diverse syntactic 
structure should be employed to test the generalization of 
prosodic characteristics for RQs. Therefore, in the current study, 
two types of polar questions, containing no interrogative words, 
were utilized. Secondly, most studies have relied on speech data 
collected from a limited number of participants in highly 
controlled laboratory settings, where the individual difference 
and the lab-induced emotional states may confound the results. 
Therefore, for enhanced ecological validity, an online data 
collection method was adopted in the current study, wherein 
participants used their own smartphones for sound recording. 
This approach has been shown to produce speech data 
comparable to laboratory recordings for pitch-related analyses 
[7]. It not only reduces the likelihood of performative tones by 
simulating real-life voice messaging but also facilitates 
participation from a larger and more diverse speaker sample. 
In summary, this research aims to examine the prosodic 
characteristics of ISQs and RQs in Standard Chinese speakers, 
with different sentence structures examined in a more 
naturalistic setting context and with a larger number of 
participants.  
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
5363
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-863

2. Method 
2.1. Participants 
A total of 116 native Mandarin speakers were recruited. To 
ensure the representativeness of the speakers and include 
diverse dialectal backgrounds, we did not place any restrictions 
on variables such as age, gender, geographical region, 
educational background, or other demographic factors. The data 
from thirteen participants were later excluded due to either not 
following instructions or suboptimal recording quality. 
Consequently, speech data from 103 participants (24 males and 
79 females) were used in the analysis. 
2.2. Materials 
The materials analyzed in the current study constitute a subset 
of recordings from a larger production project involving a set 
of 84 polar questions ending with the neutral-toned 
interrogative SFP ma (“吗”). Two types of polar questions are 
targeted to our interest (Table 1): those with the 
predicate/modal verb being followed by a content word which 
acts as a complement (verb-complement, VC) and those 
without (null-complement, NC). With syllable count controlled, 
there are 5 NC questions of 4 syllables, 8 NC of 5 syllables, 9 
VC of 5 syllables, and 7 VC of 6 syllables.  
Table 1: Sentence sequence types and exemplars. 
Subj: subject; PM:perfective marker; SFP: sentence-
final particle; syl: syllable  
Null-Complement  
Structure (NC) 
Verb-Complement  
Structure (VC) 
shū 
kàn 
le 
ma 
 
tā 
huì 
tiào 
wǔ 
ma 
 
书 
看 
了 
吗 
 
他 
会 
跳 
舞 
吗 
 
book 
Topic 
read 
Verb 
 
PM 
 
SFP 
 
he 
Subj. 
can 
Model 
Verb 
dance 
Complement 
 
SFP 
 
Have (you) read the book? 
Can he dance? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
xí 
tí 
zuò 
le 
ma 
tā 
xué 
guò 
shēng 
wù 
ma 
习 
题 
做 
了 
吗 
他 
学 
过 
生 
物 
吗 
exercises 
Topic 
do 
Verb 
 
PM 
 
SFP 
he 
Subj. 
learn 
Verb 
 
PM 
biology 
Complement 
 
SFP 
Have (you) completed the exercises? 
Has he learned biology? 
 
For each target question, a pair of two distinct scenarios 
were designed to convey different communicative intentions: 
one involving neutral events, where questions were 
straightforward inquiries to obtain information, and the other 
involving negative events, where the speaker expressed 
dissatisfaction toward the other interlocutor, a third party, or an 
object, using the questions in rhetorical manner (Table 2). For 
example, for the target sentence “Have you completed the 
exercises?”, the context that induced ISQs was “The mother 
wanted to check her son’s homework, so she asked.” The 
context that induced RQs was “Xiao Ming did not do well on 
the exam, but he is still spending all his time on TikTok instead 
of doing his homework. So his mother said.” Notably, none of 
the words in the target questions are default focused element 
like wh-word. Also, the content in the target question did not 
differ between the two scenarios in terms of referencing 
new/old information.  
In total, 58 items (29 questions × 2 scenarios) were created.  
These items, along with other sentences from a larger project, 
were divided into four lists (each containing 42 items), ensuring 
that the two scenarios of the same target question did not appear 
in the same list. Each participant was assigned one of the four 
lists, and the items within each list were presented in a 
randomized order. A total number of 1433 sentences were 
analyzed in this paper. 
2.3. Procedures 
The experiment was conducted using the online survey 
platform Wenjuanxing (https://www.wjx.cn). Participants were 
directed to scan a QR code and complete the experiment on 
their smartphones in a quiet environment. While the use of 
headphones for recording was recommended, there were no 
strict restrictions on the type of mobile devices or recording 
equipment used. Participants were first asked to read the 
provided contextual information and then press the microphone 
icon on the screen to record the target sentences. They were 
instructed to fully engage with the scenario, and imagine 
themselves as the individual posing the question in the 
conversation. If any errors occurred during recording, such as 
mispronunciations, omissions, or added words, participants 
were permitted to re-record their responses. 
2.4. Data  analysis 
The recordings were segmented and annotated using a custom-
written forced-alignment tool, and then manually adjusted by 
two research assistants. The analysis includes auditory 
evaluations of prominence and acoustic measurements. For the 
perceptual judgments, a native Mandarin speaker with 
linguistic training, who was blinded to the experimental 
conditions of each sentence, was instructed to listen to all 
sentences and annotate perceived prominence based on auditory 
perception. If two levels of prominence were identified, the 
most prominent word(s) were labeled as 2, and the less 
prominent word(s) as 0. If three levels of prominence were 
detected, the most prominent word(s) were labeled as 2, the 
second most prominent word(s) as 1, and the least prominent 
word(s) as 0. Multinomial logistic regression was then used to 
examine the effect of context (ISQs vs. RQs) on the level of 
prominence (three categories: 0, 1, 2).  
Pitch was first automatically tracked and subsequently 
manually checked and corrected using Praat [8]. For each 
syllable, f0 values were extracted at ten equidistant points, and 
the time-normalized f0 contours were compared across question 
types (ISQs vs. RQs). Generalized additive mixed models 
(GAMMs) were employed to examine differences in time-
normalized f0 trajectories between ISQs and RQs. Model fitting 
was performed using the R package mgcv [9], and the package 
itsadug [10] was utilized to visualize the model results. The 
number of basis functions (k) was adjusted as needed, and the 
best-fitting models were corrected for autocorrelation using a 
correlation parameter determined by the acf_resid() function. 
To compare the duration of ISQs and RQs, the Shapiro-
Wilk test was first conducted to assess normality. The results 
indicated that the duration data for both ISQs and RQs were not 
normally distributed. Therefore, the non-parametric Wilcoxon 
rank-sum test (also known as the Mann-Whitney U test) was 
applied to evaluate differences between the two groups. 
5364

3. Results 
3.1. Perceptual prominence 
The perceptual prominence for NC sentences is summarized in 
Figure 1. The verb, positioned at the last third syllable before 
the two neutral-toned particles, was most likely to carry primary 
prominence (the blue bar) compared to other elements, 
regardless of sentence type. The percentage of primary 
prominence on verb was higher in RQs than that in ISQs, but 
the difference was not statistically significant. Additionally, the 
interrogative particle ma in RQs was assigned more secondary 
prominence (denoted as stress_1 in the figure) compared to that 
in ISQs (4-syllable NC: β = 0.395, z = 1.107, p < 0.001; 5-
syllable NC: β = 1.089, z = 2.827, p = 0.005).  
For VC sentences, the pattern of verbs being the most 
perceptually prominent was observed only in RQs. In contrast, 
ISQs exhibited the highest proportion of prominence on the 
post-verb complement, which is the last content word before the 
sentence-final particle (SFP) (Figure 2). This observation was 
further supported by statistical results: the probability of 
primary prominence on the verb was significantly higher in 
RQs than in ISQs (5-syllable VC: β = 1.866, z = 5.524, p < 
0.001; 6-syllable VC: β = 2.682, z = 5.205, p < 0.001). The 
interrogative particle in RQs was also assigned more secondary 
prominence (5-syllable VC: β = 0.750, z = 2.163, p = 0.030; 6-
syllable VC: β = 0.749, z = 2.163, p = 0.030). 
 
Figure 1: Stress patterns for 4-syllable and 5-syllable 
NC sentences 
 
Figure 2: Stress patterns for 5-syllable and 6-syllable 
VC sentences 
3.2. Pitch 
The best GAMM models included sentence type (ISQ vs. RQ) 
as a parametric effect (fixed effect), along with a random 
smooth for speakers over normalized time. Figures 3 and 4 
provide visualizations of the time-normalized f0 trajectories for 
ISQs and RQs, as well as the predicted differences in f0 between 
the two sentence sequence types.  
 
 
Figure 3:  Time normalized average f0 trajectory for 
ISQs (red) and RQs (blue) NC sentences (left panel) 
and the predicted difference in f0 (right panel) for 4- 
(upper panel) and 5-syllable (lower panel) sentences. 
The grey shading displays 95% confidence interval 
(CI) of the predicted mean difference. The difference 
in f0 is significant if zero is not included in the 95% 
CI. Significant differences are delimited by the 
vertical red lines.  
 
 
Figure 4: Time normalized average f0 trajectory for 
ISQs (red) and RQs (blue) VC sentences (left panel) 
and the predicted difference in f0 (right panel) for 5- 
(upper panel) and 6-syllable (lower panel) sentences.  
Regarding NC sentences (Figure 3), for those with five 
syllables, RQs exhibited a significantly higher pitch during the 
verb and the first half of the perfective marker le. No significant 
differences were found in four-syllable NC sentences, although 
a trend of higher pitch in the verb for RQs could still be 
observed. As for VC sentences (Figure 4), both 5-syllable and 
6-syllable questions showed a reversal in the pitch pattern 
before and after the verb/modal verb. Specifically, RQs 
displayed significantly higher pitch than ISQs from the 
sentence beginning to the verb/modal verb; however, the pitch 
was significantly lower for RQs than for ISQs in the subsequent 
portion of the sentence. 
3.3. Duration 
The duration of each syllable was compared between ISQs and 
RQs. No significant durational difference was observed in 4-
syllable NC sentences. For five-syllable NC sentences, the 
Wilcoxon rank-sum test showed that the verb in RQs was 
significantly longer than that in ISQs (W = 17377, p = 0.029). 
In five-syllable VC sentences, the subject, modal verb, and 
main verb in RQs were all significantly longer compared to 
those in ISQs (first syllable: W = 17377, p < 0.001; second 
5365

syllable: W = 13132, p < 0.001; third syllable: W = 19238, p < 
0.001; fourth syllable: W = 21248, p = 0.010). For six-syllable 
VC sentences, the duration of the verb (second syllable) was 
significantly longer in RQs (W = 7007.5, p < 0.001), while the 
subject (first syllable) was significantly shorter (W = 17621, p 
= 0.003).  
 
Figure 5: Averaged word duration for four-syllable 
NC sentences (left) and five-syllable NC sentences 
(right)  
 
Figure 6: Averaged word duration for five-syllable VC 
sentences (left) and six-syllable VC sentences (right)  
3.4. Results summary 
In summary, conveying rhetorical meanings enhances the 
prominence of the verb (NC sentences) or shifts prominence 
toward the verb or modal verb (VC sentences), while the 
sentence-final particle receives more secondary prominence. 
Acoustically, the verb or modal verb in RQs exhibited 
significantly higher f0 and longer duration in both NC and VC 
sentences. For VC sentences, the subject of RQs also displayed 
an elevated pitch, while the subsequent parts were characterized 
by a lower f0. 
4. Discussion 
Our data showed that the marking of RQs in naturalistic settings 
is primarily associated with the prosody of the verb. The verb 
in RQs was generally perceived more prominent and exhibited 
a higher f0 and a longer duration than that in ISQs. Since these 
features are predominantly linked to focus marking [11, 12], we 
consider our results as reflect in focus reassignment driven by 
the demand of conveying rhetorical meanings. Particularly, two 
sentence sequence types depicted distinct verb-rooted dynamics. 
In the case of VC structures, the default focus determined by 
the syntax and the lexical semantics of the sentence is 
positioned at the complement, as clearly reflected in ISQs’ 
measures: the complement took the most prominence and the 
longest duration per syllable. However, rhetorical expressions 
shift the focus to the verb; as a result, not only the verb is 
accented and lengthened, but also the f0 rises up to the verb and 
has a sharper drop right after the verb. On the other hand, if the 
verb has been assigned the default focus in the ISQ, such as in 
the NC type, its prominence is further enhanced perceptually 
and acoustically, to achieve a stronger emphatic effect for 
rhetorical marking. The remaining part of the NC sentence, 
other than the verb, is less affected in intonation due to the 
stable focus position.  
The verb was focused in our RQs, presumably because of 
the rhetorical meanings conveyed within the context. For 
instance, for the question ‘Have (you) completed the exercises’, 
the rhetorical context, which is known to both parties, implies a 
negation to this presupposition (‘have NOT completed’), thus 
causing the act of asking to conflict with the fact. The verb in 
the question constitutes a focused element in our study, 
similarly to the wh-word in previous studies [1, 4]. In addition, 
the differences between sentence sequence types (Null-
Complement VS Verb-Complement) suggest that syntactic 
construction plays a role in the phonetic realization of rhetorical 
questions. 
The results of this study partially align with those of [4], but 
differences are also evident. While [4] reported global 
lengthening of duration, the lengthened duration observed in 
our study is localized mainly on the verb. Additionally, [4] 
found that RQs consistently exhibited significantly lower f0 at 
the wh-word as well as the post-verb part, whereas in our study, 
lower f0 was observed only after the focused verb in VC 
sentences. One possible reason is the lexical tone for the 
focused element, which is a rising tone (who “shéi” ) in [4] 
whereas our study involves diverse tones because different 
verbs were used. Another factor that should be taken into 
account is whether performative speech is measured. Rather 
than solely in a lab environment with a limited number of 
participants from a specific population, this study collected data 
in naturalistic settings with speakers with diverse backgrounds. 
The inclusion of participants with diverse dialectal backgrounds 
enables identifying common patterns in rhetorical meaning 
signaling in Standard Chinese across  dialects. These findings 
can help reveal generalizable patterns, offering valuable 
insights for speech synthesis applications. 
Besides, we note that the short, 4-syllable NC questions were 
prosodically marked in a weaker manner compared with the 
longer NC questions. It may be attributed to the limited 
utterance length, which may affect the adjustment of global 
intonation, especially in a tonal language [13].  In addition to 
pitch and duration, voice quality also warrants consideration as 
a potential marker of rhetorical meaning. Previous research has 
established that non-modal voice quality serves as a phonetic 
correlate of rhetorical meaning in both tonal and non-tonal 
languages [1, 3, 4, 6]. It is plausible that differences in voice 
quality exist between information-seeking questions (ISQs) and 
rhetorical questions (RQs) in 4-syllable NC questions. 
Therefore, in subsequent studies, we plan to conduct a more in-
depth analysis of voice quality to achieve a more 
comprehensive understanding of this issue. 
5. Conclusions 
This study shows that in naturalistic settings, rhetorical 
meaning in Standard Chinese is prosodically marked by 
enhanced prominence on the verb/modal verb. Acoustically, 
this prominence is characterized by a higher f0 and longer 
duration of the verb/modal verb. The findings further reveal that 
the 
prosodic 
realization 
of 
rhetorical 
expressions 
is 
systematically influenced by syntactic structure. These results 
support a model in which focus reassignment, driven by 
rhetorical intent, interacts with syntactic structure, phonological 
factors, and utterance length to shape prosodic patterns. These 
insights hold potential applications in speech synthesis and 
cross-dialectal studies. Future investigations should focus on 
elucidating the cognitive and linguistic mechanisms underlying 
these observed patterns. 
5366

6. Acknowledgements 
This work was supported by the National Natural Science 
Foundation of China (NSFC 62276185) and Key Laboratory of 
Linguistics, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (Project  
#2024SYZH001). 
7. References 
[1] N. Dehé and B. Braun, “The prosody of rhetorical questions in 
English,” English Language and Linguistics, vol. 24, pp. 607–
635, 2020. 
[2] I. Miura and N. Hara, “Production and perception of rhetorical 
questions in Osaka Japanese,” Journal of Phonetics, vol. 2, pp. 
291–303, 1995. 
[3] R.-Y.-H. Lo, A. Kiss, and M. Tulling, “The prosodic properties of 
the Cantonese sentence-final particles aa1 and aa3 in rhetorical 
wh-questions,” in Proceedings of the International Congress of 
Phonetic Sciences (ICPhS), Melbourne, Australia, 2019, pp. 
502–506. 
[4] K. Zahner-Ritter, Y. Chen, N. Dehé, and B. Braun, “The prosodic 
marking of rhetorical questions in Standard Chinese,” Journal of 
Phonetics, vol. 95, p. 101190, 2020. 
[5] R.-Y.-H. Lo and A. Kiss, “Durational and pitch marking of 
rhetorical wh-questions in Mandarin,” in Proceedings of the 10th 
International Conference on Speech Prosody (Speech Prosody 
2020), Tokyo, Japan, 2020. 
[6] B. Braun, N. Dehé, J. Neitsch, D. Wochner, and K. Zahner, “The 
prosody of rhetorical and information-seeking questions in 
German,” Language and Speech, vol. 62, pp. 779–807, 2019. 
[7] C. Ge, Y. Xiong, and P. Mok, “How reliable are phonetic data 
collected remotely? Comparison of recording devices and 
environments on acoustic measurements,” in Proceedings of 
Interspeech 2021, Prague, Czech, 2021, pp. 245–249. 
[8] P. Boerma, “Praat, a system for doing phonetics by computer”. 
Glot International, no. 5, 2002. 
[9] S. Wood, “mgcv: Mixed GAM Computation Vehicle with 
Automatic Smoothness Estimation, ” R Package Version 1.8-42, 
2023. 
[Online]. 
Available: 
https://cran.r-
project.org/web/packages/mgcv/index.html 
[10] J. van Rij, M. Wieling, R. Baayen, and H. van Rijn, “Itsadug: 
Interpreting time series and autocorrelated data using GAMMs,” 
R 
Package 
Version 
2.4, 
2023. 
[Online]. 
Available: 
https://search.r-
project.org/CRAN/refmans/itsadug/html/itsadug.html. 
[11] M. Lin and Z. Li, “Focus and boundary in Chinese intonation,” 
in Proceedings of ICPhS, vol. 17, Prague, Czech, Aug. 2011, pp. 
1246–1249. 
[12] Y. Chen, “ Durational adjustment under corrective focus in 
Standard Chinese,” Journal of Phonetics, vol. 34, no. 2, pp. 
176–201, Apr. 2006. 
[13] J. Yuan and M. Liberman, “F0 declination in English and 
Mandarin broadcast news speech,” Speech Communication, vol. 
65, pp. 67–74, 2014. 
 
5367

