warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
SoundSculpt: Direction and Semantics Driven Ambisonic Target Sound
Extraction
Tuochao Chen∗1, D Shin∗∗2, Hakan Erdogan3, Sinan Hersek2
1University of Washington,
2Google AR,
3Google DeepMind,
tuochao@cs.washington.edu, deshin@google.com, hakanerdogan@google.com,
shersek@google.com
Abstract
This paper introduces SoundSculpt, a neural network de-
signed to extract target sound fields from ambisonic recordings.
SoundSculpt employs an ambisonic-in-ambisonic-out architec-
ture and is conditioned on both spatial information (e.g., tar-
get direction obtained by pointing at an immersive video) and
semantic embeddings (e.g., derived from image segmentation
and captioning). Trained and evaluated on synthetic and real
ambisonic mixtures, SoundSculpt demonstrates superior perfor-
mance compared to various signal processing baselines. Our
results further reveal that while spatial conditioning alone can
be effective, the combination of spatial and semantic informa-
tion is beneficial in scenarios where there are secondary sound
sources spatially close to the target. Additionally, we compare
two different semantic embeddings derived from a text descrip-
tion of the target sound using text encoders.
Index Terms: target sound extraction, spatial audio, ambison-
ics, neural network, conditioning
1. Introduction
In recent years, spatial audio has become increasingly popular
due to the introduction of new VR/AR headsets. Ambisonics,
a popular spatial audio format, enables binaural rendering of
head-tracked spatial audio and is commonly used in VR [1].
Ambisonic signals can be recorded using spherical microphone
arrays [2] or emerging techniques that employ arbitrary micro-
phone arrays, such as those found in AR glasses [3].
In this paper, we present SoundSculpt, a method to extract a
target ambisonic sound field from an ambisonic mixture record-
ing. We envision a scenario where an individual watches a 180o
or 360o panoramic video with accompanying head tracked spa-
tial audio on a VR headset (Figure 1). For example, the video
might feature a street musician playing the guitar and singing
amidst a busy cityscape, with various other ambient sounds like
people talking and traffic. The user points to the guitar, and all
other sounds in the scene vanish, leaving only the guitar sound,
preserving its spatial and reverb characteristics.
The main component of SoundSculpt is an ambisonic-in-
ambisonic-out neural network conditioned by a target direction
and a semantic embedding that describes the sound to be iso-
lated. The target direction can be provided by the user pointing
to an immersive video. A semantic representation of the tar-
get sound can be obtained using regional image segmentation at
the target direction, followed by the computation of a semantic
embedding of the segmented region.
* Work done during internship in Google AR.
** Now at Google DeepMind.
Raw Ambisonic Audio 
(Mixture)
Output Ambisonic Audio 
(Target)
θ
φ
SoundSculpt
Model
Semantic 
Embedding
Spatial 
Embedding
Figure 1: Overview of SoundSculpt, a spatially and semanti-
cally conditioned target ambisonic signal extraction model.
Signal processing based techniques exist to estimate a target
ambisonic signal. In [4] an ambisonic domain transformation
is proposed for directional loudness modification. The loud-
ness of sounds outside of a spherical cap centered at the target
direction can be suppressed using this method. Furthermore,
[5] and [6] investigate beamforming and matrix multi-channel
Wiener filtering based methods to estimate a target ambisonic
signal. However, if there is another sound source close to the
desired target, these techniques might not perform effectively.
This raises the question of whether information other than spa-
tial direction can be employed as a conditioning factor for ex-
tracting target ambisonic signals.
Semantically conditioned neural networks have shown
promising results to extract target signals from mono or bin-
aural recordings. Kilgour et al. [7] present a semantically con-
ditioned audio-to-audio UNet architecture designed to isolate
a desired audio source from mono waveforms. The semantic
condition can be derived by feeding the text description of the
target sound to a text encoder or a short audio snippet of the tar-
get source to an audio encoder. [8] describes a computationally
efficient neural network for extracting target sounds from mono
waveforms. Furthermore, Veluri et al. [9] explore the preserva-
tion of binaural cues during target sound extraction from binau-
ral audio. Both of the latter approaches utilize the class label of
the target sound for model conditioning.
Neural networks have also shown promising results in
region-wise sound extraction. For instance, Yang et al. pro-
posed a model that separates target speech from interfering
sources using two microphones, focusing on different angular
regions [10]. Gu et al. introduced a method for extracting ac-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
943
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1379

tive target sounds within a user-defined spatial region, utilizing
multi-channel audio input and region features to produce an es-
timate of the target signal [11].
Drawing inspiration from these methods, we introduce a
first order ambisonic-to-ambisonic UNet architecture designed
to extract target ambisonic sounds from complex ambisonic
mixtures, leveraging both spatial and semantic conditioning.
To evaluate SoundSculpt’s performance, we curate a compre-
hensive dataset of synthetic and real ambisonic recordings and
conduct extensive experiments comparing different condition-
ing strategies (spatial, semantic, and combined). Our results
demonstrate that SoundSculpt significantly outperforms tradi-
tional signal processing baselines in terms of scale-invariant
signal-to-distortion ratio improvement (SI-SDRi). Furthermore,
we analyze the benefits of incorporating both spatial and se-
mantic cues, revealing their synergistic contribution to target
sound extraction. Finally, we investigate the impact of different
semantic embedding techniques, comparing the contrastively
trained SoundWords [7] encoder with a widely-used BERT
model [12], and discuss their relative effectiveness.
2. Method
2.1. Problem Setup
Let a(t, θ, ϕ) be the plane wave amplitude distribution describ-
ing an incident sound field. We denote the azimuth angle as θ ∈
[0, 2π] and the elevation angle as ϕ ∈[−π
2 , π
2 ]. The ambisonic
signal, x(t) = [x00(t), ..., xnm(t), ...xNN(t)]T ∈R(N+1)2,
represents this sound field using a spherical harmonics (SH) ex-
pansion up to SH (or ambisonic) order N:
a(t, θ, ϕ) ≈
N
X
n=0
n
X
m=−n
xnm(t)Y m
n (θ, ϕ)
(1)
where Y m
n are real valued SH basis functions, n and m are the
SH order and degree respectively [4]. In this work we use the
SN3D SH basis described in [13]. Additionally, we use first
order ambisonics (FOA) where N = 1.
We assume that an ambisonic recording x(t) is the combi-
nation of a target sound field and other sounds in the scene:
x(t) = y(t) + n(t)
(2)
where y(t) ∈R(N+1)2 is the ambisonic signal representing the
target sound field. Similarly n(t) represents the sound field due
to everything else in the scene.
Our goal is to estimate the target ambisonic signal ˆy(t)
given the ambisonic recording x(t). To that end, we aim to
design a network that takes x(t), the source direction and a se-
mantic embedding vector that describes the target sound, as in-
puts. We propose extracting the semantic embedding - denoted
using v ∈RK - from a text description of the target sound us-
ing a text encoder. We denote the target sound’s azimuth and
elevation angles of arrival as θs and ϕs. We aim to design an
estimator to extract the target ambisonic signal:
ˆy = f(x, θs, ϕs, v)
(3)
where T is the number of time samples, x ∈R(N+1)2×T is
a segment of the ambisonic recording and ˆy ∈R(N+1)2×T is
the corresponding estimated target. We assume that the target
source doesn’t move during the duration of the segment.
We hypothesize that in scenarios where the target sound
originates from a direction (e.g. a plane wave) with minimal
interference from nearby directions, knowing the source direc-
tion alone should suffice for effective target ambisonic signal
estimation. However, the presence of interfering sounds from
nearby directions may necessitate additional information be-
yond the direction. Given the promising results of semantic
conditioning for target sound extraction in mono and binaural
signals, we anticipate that incorporating a semantic input will
be beneficial in such scenarios [7, 8, 9].
To enhance flexibility and avoid limiting SoundSculpt to
predefined sound classes, we utilize a semantic embedding
based on a text description rather than discrete class labels as
employed in [9]. This approach allows for a richer and more
nuanced representation of the target sound, enabling the model
to generalize to a wide range of acoustic events.
2.2. Model Architecture
Our model draws inspiration from the semantically conditioned
mono-to-mono U-Net architecture in [7], extending it to a first
order ambisonic-to-ambisonic (4-channel) U-Net with semantic
and/or spatial conditioning.
We derive the semantic embedding vector by feeding the
target sound’s text description into a text encoder model. One
of the encoders we consider is SoundWords from [7], which is
trained to generate a joint text-sound embedding through con-
trastive learning. We also investigate a widely-used BERT en-
coder trained in a self-supervised manner on the Wikipedia +
BooksCorpus datasets [14][12].
To condition our model, we project the semantic embedding
and target direction (or the spatial condition - consisting of the
azimuth and elevation angles) separately to vectors of size 128
that are then added together. This is then incorporated into the
model using feature-wise linear modulation (FiLM) [15], ap-
plied to the layers within the encoder and decoder. Furthermore,
we experiment with using only the semantic condition and only
the spatial conditions. Similar to [7], we employ a symmetric
encoder-decoder U-net network with skip-connections. The en-
coder employs a convolutional architecture with an initial depth
of 32, progressively increasing by multiples of 8, 8, 2, and 2
through 7-layer ResNet blocks [16]. The decoder mirrors this
structure.
2.3. Dataset Preparation
We train and test our models on both synthetic and real am-
bisonic data as shown in Figure 2. To create synthetic data we
first use the image source method to generate 400k ambisonic
room impulse responses (RIRs) for training and 80k for evalu-
ation [17]. To generate each ambisonic RIR, we first generate a
random shoebox shaped room where the room dimensions can
randomly vary between 2-15 meters. We place an ambisonic
receiver near the center of the room with some position ran-
domization. We randomly position four sound sources within
the room, where the first source is the target. Each source’s
direction relative to the receiver is sampled randomly from a
uniform distribution on the unit sphere [18]. The distance be-
tween each source and the receiver is randomly sampled from
the range 0.6-5 meters, ensuring that all sources fall inside the
room.
Random material types are assigned to the floor, ceiling and
walls of the room and FIR filters representing the acoustic char-
acteristics of these materials are used during simulation. Jitter
is introduced to the positions of the image sources to mitigate
sweeping echoes in the RIRs [19].
We conduct the simulations in the frequency domain. For a
944

Random 
Segments
Ambisonic RIRs
Bert or 
SoundWords
Text Encoder
Convolution 
and Mixing
Mono or Ambisonic 
Source Waveforms
SoundSculpt 
Target Direction
(θ, ϕ)
Semantic 
Embedding
Conditioning 
Input
Ambisonic 
Output
Loss Function
Combine
Image Source
Simulation
Ambisonic 
Output
Target label
= “Speech”
Real and 
Synthetic
Ambisonic 
Mixtures
Freesound 
Dataset
FSD50k 
Dataset
Clotho 
Dataset
Libri-light
Dataset
STARSS23
Dataset
Figure 2: Overview of dataset preparation and model training.
given sound source, denoting the number of image source paths
to the receiver as P we compute the ambisonic room transfer
function for SH order n and degree m at frequency f as:
rnm(f) =
P
X
p=1
Ip(f)e−j2πfτpY m
n (θp, ϕp)
(4)
where, for each path p, Ip(f) ∈C is a multiplier related to dis-
tance attenuation and wall filtering, τp is the travel delay and
(θp, ϕp) is the direction of arrival. This is equivalent to encod-
ing each image source path to ambisonics [13]. Simulation is
distributed amongst 100 NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPUs for paral-
lel computing.
A synthetic training dataset of 1.2 million input/target pairs
was created by convolving and mixing mono audio sources with
randomly selected ambisonic RIRs. Source waveforms were
randomly selected from Libri-Light [20], Clotho [21], FSD50k
[22], and a collection of ∼78k CC0-licensed Freesound clips
[23] that are not part of FSD50k. Random source gains and si-
lencing of secondary sources were applied to increase diversity.
A similar process was used to create a synthetic test dataset
of 120k pairs, with speech segments from LibriTTS dev-clean
split [24] and arbitrary sounds from Clotho and FSD50k’s test
splits.
Target source descriptions were derived from dataset labels
(FSD50k), captions (Clotho), or assigned based on the source
dataset (e.g. variations of the phrase ”human speech” for Libri-
Light and LibriTTS). The additional Freesound clips were la-
beled using keyword matching against the AudioSet ontology
[25] and a sound event classifier. These descriptions were used
to extract semantic embeddings for the target sounds.
An additional 400k training input/target pairs were created
by sampling and mixing segments from the development set of
the STARSS23 dataset [26]. This dataset consists of real FOA
recordings obtained using a high-resolution 32-channel spheri-
cal microphone array (Eigenmike EM32). The sound event and
directions are annotated. We first sample 4.096s clips consist-
ing of single sound events where the direction is static. We ran-
domly select two segments, one for the target source and one for
a secondary source. We apply random gains to these segments
and mix them. We randomize the source directions for each
segment, by uniformly sampling a random direction on the unit
sphere and rotating the FOA signal to match this direction of
arrival via multiplications with rotation matrices [1]. The target
segment’s sound event label serves as its description. We simi-
larly create 40k pairs to form a test split of STARSS23 mixtures,
using the evaluation set of the STARSS23 dataset. During mix-
ture creation, we excluded the sound class ”domestic sounds”
from consideration as a target source due to its broad and en-
compassing nature.
All input/target pairs we formed have a sample rate of
16kHz and duration of 4.096s. Additionally, for both datasets,
with 50% probability we placed a secondary source that has
a different semantic description than the target, near the target
source (within ±15° azimuth and elevation) to generate chal-
lenging cases.
2.4. Training Setup
Each SoundSculpt model was trained on 16 Google Cloud TPU
v3 cores for at least 500k steps (batch size 128, learning rate
10−4 using the Adam optimizer). Each batch comprised 75%
of synthetic and 25% of STARSS23 mixtures, this ratio was
empirically determined. Training emphasized synthetic mix-
tures because the synthetic dataset offered more diversity and a
larger volume of data. The loss function was the ℓ1 distance be-
tween the complex short-time Fourier transforms (STFT, win-
dow length 1024, hop length 256) of the target and output, av-
eraged across the FOA channels.
In more detail, we denote the STFT of the target signal as
Y ∈CL×F ×(N+1)2 where L is the number of time steps, F =
513 is the number of real-FFT frequency bins and N = 1 is
the ambisonic order. Denoting the estimated signal’s STFT as
ˆY ∈CL×F ×(N+1)2 we compute the loss as:
L =
1
(N + 1)2
(N+1)2
X
c=1
L
X
l=1
F
X
f=1
|Y [l, f, c] −ˆY [l, f, c]| (5)
2.5. Baseline Methods
SoundSculpt’s performance is compared against three baseline
signal processing algorithms.
The first, directional loudness
945

Table 1: Comparison of different target ambisonic signal extraction algorithms. We present SI-SDRi (averaged across channels)
evaluated and averaged across the test split of the STARSS23 mixtures and synthetic datasets. Results are shown for all segments,
segments where there is at least one secondary source within 15° of the target direction (only close secondary) and segments where
there are no secondary sources within 15° (no close secondary).
Dataset
Name
Algorithm Name
SI-SDRi [dB]
(all)
SI-SDRi [dB]
(only close secondary)
SI-SDRi [dB]
(no close secondary)
STARSS23
Mixtures
Ambisonic Loudness Modification
-6.71
-7.84
-6.28
Max-DI Beamform-and-project
-6.36
-7.95
-5.75
Max-rE Beamform-and-project
-6.97
-8.48
-6.40
Bert Condition
-1.80
-0.14
-2.44
Soundwords Condition
-2.13
-0.59
-2.72
Spatial Condition
2.44
-0.59
3.59
Spatial and Bert Condition
0.73
-0.20
1.09
Spatial and Soundwords Condition
2.47
1.19
2.96
Synthetic
Ambisonic Loudness Modification
-1.43
-2.32
-1.16
Max-DI Beamform-and-project
-1.56
-2.83
-1.17
Max-rE Beamform-and-project
-1.59
-2.87
-1.19
Bert Condition
4.03
4.18
3.99
Soundwords Condition
3.62
3.81
3.56
Spatial Condition
9.36
6.03
10.38
Spatial and Bert Condition
10.32
8.06
11.02
Spatial and Soundwords Condition
10.73
8.81
11.31
modification, employs an ambisonic transformation to preserve
the loudness of the spatial signal within a spherical cap, while
attenuating signals outside this region [4]. The center direction
of the spherical cap is set to the target sound direction. For the
cap spread, we empirically determined a value of 60°through
experimentation on a small validation set.
Two
additional
baseline
approaches,
similar
to
the
beamform-and-project method described by Herzog et al. [6],
were implemented. This technique estimates source signals us-
ing beamformers and then projects these estimates back to the
ambisonic domain. While the original method employs multi-
speaker multichannel Wiener filters, requiring estimation of the
power spectral density of both the source signals and the noise,
we instead utilize the signal-independent max-DI and max-rE
beamformers [27]. A single beamformer steered toward the tar-
get’s direction is used.
3. Results and Discussion
Results are presented in Table 1. We present SI-SDRi (averaged
across channels) for the baseline algorithms and SoundSculpt
models that use various types of conditioning. SI-SDRi is aver-
aged across the respective datasets. We evaluate the algorithms
on the test split of the STARSS23 mixtures and the synthetic
dataset. In addition to presenting results for the whole dataset,
we also provide results for segments where there’s at least one
secondary source within 15° (great circle distance) of the target
direction and for segments where there aren’t any secondary
sources within 15° of the target direction.
For both the STARSS23 mixtures and the synthetic
datasets, all neural network-based approaches significantly out-
perform the signal processing approaches, even when using
only semantic conditioning. On the synthetic data, SoundSculpt
models using spatial + semantic conditions outperform both
spatial-only and semantic-only conditioning, with little differ-
ence between BERT and SoundWords encoders. However, we
note that SoundSculpt models have approximately 31.7 million
parameters, whereas the signal processing methods are inher-
ently more computationally efficient.
On the synthetic dataset, semantic-only conditioning ex-
hibits a small SI-SDRi difference (∼0.2dB) between segments
with and without a nearby secondary source.
Models using
spatial-only or combined semantic and spatial conditioning per-
form worse when a secondary source is close to the target di-
rection. In the segments with a nearby secondary source, the
combined semantic and spatial models outperform the spatial-
only SoundSculpt. While the combined models also outperform
the spatial-only model when no secondary source is nearby, the
performance gain is smaller.
The STARSS23 mixtures show lower SI-SDRi values over-
all compared to the synthetic datasets, possibly due to impre-
cision in direction and sound event labels or external noise in
the extracted segments. Unlike the synthetic dataset, there is
little difference between spatial-only and spatial + SoundWords
conditioning, potentially due to fewer secondary sources in the
STARSS23 mixtures.
When there’s no secondary source close to the target,
spatial-only conditioning slightly outperforms spatial + Sound-
Words by ∼0.6dB. However, with a close secondary source,
spatial + SoundWords outperforms spatial-only by ∼1.8dB,
demonstrating the benefits of combined conditioning on both
realistic and synthetic ambisonic datasets. On the STARSS23
mixtures, spatial + BERT conditioning is outperformed by spa-
tial + SoundWords, which may be because the BERT encoder is
trained solely on text, whereas SoundWords is trained on both
text and audio, likely resulting in a better alignment between the
two modalities.
4. Conclusion
This paper introduced SoundSculpt, a neural network model for
target sound extraction from ambisonic recordings, leveraging
both spatial and semantic conditioning. SoundSculpt consis-
tently outperformed traditional signal processing baselines. The
combination of spatial and semantic information proved bene-
ficial in complex acoustic scenes with interfering sources near
the target. Future work could explore alternative network archi-
tectures and different semantic embedding techniques.
946

5. References
[1] F. Zotter and M. Frank, Ambisonics: A practical 3D audio theory
for recording, studio production, sound reinforcement, and virtual
reality.
Springer Nature, 2019.
[2] B.
Rafaely,
Fundamentals
of
spherical
array
processing.
Springer, 2015, vol. 8.
[3] Y. Gayer, V. Tourbabin, Z. Ben-Hur, J. Donley, and B. Rafaely,
“Ambisonics encoding for arbitrary microphone arrays incorpo-
rating residual channels for binaural reproduction,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.17362, 2024.
[4] M. Kronlachner and F. Zotter, “Spatial transformations for the en-
hancement of ambisonic recordings,” in Proceedings of the 2nd
International Conference on Spatial Audio, Erlangen, 2014.
[5] A. Herzog and E. A. Habets, “Direction preserving wiener matrix
filtering for ambisonic input-output systems,” in ICASSP 2019-
2019 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2019, pp. 446–450.
[6] A. Herzog and E. A. P. Habets, “Direction and reverberation pre-
serving noise reduction of ambisonics signals,” IEEE/ACM Trans-
actions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, vol. 28, pp.
2461–2475, 2020.
[7] K. Kilgour, B. Gfeller, Q. Huang, A. Jansen, S. Wisdom, and
M. Tagliasacchi, “Text-driven separation of arbitrary sounds,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.05738, 2022.
[8] B. Veluri, J. Chan, M. Itani, T. Chen, T. Yoshioka, and S. Gol-
lakota, “Real-time target sound extraction,” in ICASSP 2023-2023
IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–5.
[9] B. Veluri, M. Itani, J. Chan, T. Yoshioka, and S. Gollakota, “Se-
mantic hearing: Programming acoustic scenes with binaural hear-
ables,” in Proceedings of the 36th Annual ACM Symposium on
User Interface Software and Technology, 2023, pp. 1–15.
[10] Y. Yang, G. Sung, S.-F. Shih, H. Erdogan, C. Lee, and M. Grund-
mann, “Binaural angular separation network,” in ICASSP 2024-
2024 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2024, pp. 1201–1205.
[11] R. Gu and Y. Luo, “Rezero: Region-customizable sound extrac-
tion,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language
Processing, 2024.
[12] J. D. M.-W. C. Kenton and L. K. Toutanova, “Bert: Pre-training
of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding,”
in Proceedings of naacL-HLT, vol. 1.
Minneapolis, Minnesota,
2019, p. 2.
[13] M. Gorzel, A. Allen, I. Kelly, J. Kammerl, A. Gungormusler,
H. Yeh, and F. Boland, “Efficient encoding and decoding of bin-
aural sound with resonance audio,” in Audio Engineering Society
Conference: 2019 AES International Conference on Immersive
and Interactive Audio.
Audio Engineering Society, 2019.
[14] Google, “Bert experts (wikibooks),” https://tfhub.dev/google/
experts/bert/wiki books/2, 2023, accessed: January 10, 2025.
[15] E. Perez, F. Strub, H. De Vries, V. Dumoulin, and A. Courville,
“Film: Visual reasoning with a general conditioning layer,” in
Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence,
vol. 32, no. 1, 2018.
[16] K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun, “Deep residual learning
for image recognition,” in Proceedings of the IEEE conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition, 2016, pp. 770–778.
[17] J. B. Allen and D. A. Berkley, “Image method for efficiently sim-
ulating small-room acoustics,” The Journal of the Acoustical So-
ciety of America, vol. 65, no. 4, pp. 943–950, 1979.
[18] M. E. Muller, “A note on a method for generating points uniformly
on n-dimensional spheres,” Communications of the ACM, vol. 2,
no. 4, pp. 19–20, 1959.
[19] E. De Sena, N. Antonello, M. Moonen, and T. Van Waterschoot,
“On the modeling of rectangular geometries in room acoustic sim-
ulations,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Lan-
guage Processing, vol. 23, no. 4, pp. 774–786, 2015.
[20] J. Kahn, M. Riviere, W. Zheng, E. Kharitonov, Q. Xu, P.-E.
Mazar´e, J. Karadayi, V. Liptchinsky, R. Collobert, C. Fuegen
et al., “Libri-light: A benchmark for asr with limited or no su-
pervision,” in ICASSP 2020-2020 IEEE International Conference
on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE,
2020, pp. 7669–7673.
[21] K. Drossos, S. Lipping, and T. Virtanen, “Clotho: An audio cap-
tioning dataset,” in ICASSP 2020-2020 IEEE International Con-
ference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2020, pp. 736–740.
[22] E. Fonseca, X. Favory, J. Pons, F. Font, and X. Serra, “Fsd50k: an
open dataset of human-labeled sound events,” IEEE/ACM Trans-
actions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, vol. 30, pp.
829–852, 2021.
[23] “Freesound - Collaborative database of creative-commons li-
censed sound effects,” https://freesound.org/, 2025, accessed: Jan-
uary 10, 2025.
[24] H. Zen, V. Dang, R. Clark, Y. Zhang, R. J. Weiss, Y. Jia, Z. Chen,
and Y. Wu, “Libritts: A corpus derived from librispeech for text-
to-speech,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.02882, 2019.
[25] J. F. Gemmeke, D. P. Ellis, D. Freedman, A. Jansen, W. Lawrence,
R. C. Moore, M. Plakal, and M. Ritter, “Audio set: An ontology
and human-labeled dataset for audio events,” in 2017 IEEE inter-
national conference on acoustics, speech and signal processing
(ICASSP).
IEEE, 2017, pp. 776–780.
[26] K. Shimada, A. Politis, P. Sudarsanam, D. A. Krause, K. Uchida,
S. Adavanne, A. Hakala, Y. Koyama, N. Takahashi, S. Takahashi
et al., “Starss23: An audio-visual dataset of spatial recordings of
real scenes with spatiotemporal annotations of sound events,” Ad-
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 36, 2024.
[27] F. Lluis, N. Meyer-Kahlen, V. Chatziioannou, and A. Hofmann,
“Direction specific ambisonics source separation with end-to-end
deep learning,” Acta Acustica, vol. 7, p. 29, 2023.
947

