warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Adaptive Knowledge Distillation for Device-Directed Speech Detection
Hyung Gun Chi1,∗, Florian Pesce1,∗, Wonil Chang1,∗, Oggi Rudovic1,∗,
Arturo Argueta1, Stefan Braun1, Vineet Garg1, Ahmed Hussen Abdelaziz2,†
1Apple, 2Meta
hchi23@apple.com
Abstract
Device-directed speech detection (DDSD) is a binary classifi-
cation task that separates the user’s queries to a voice assistant
(VA) from background speech or side conversations. This is im-
portant for achieving naturalistic user experience. To this end,
we propose knowledge distillation (KD) to enhance DDSD ac-
curacy while ensuring efficient deployment. Specifically, we
introduce a novel adaptive KD method that transfers knowledge
from general representations of an ASR large pre-trained acous-
tic encoder (teacher). We apply task-specific adapters, on top
of the (frozen) teacher encoder, trained jointly with the student
model on DDSD. We demonstrate that the proposed adaptive
KD outperforms the student model without distillation in the
keyword and keyword-free (follow-up) invocations, with an im-
provement of +26% and +19% in terms of Equal Error Rate, re-
spectively. We also show that this approach generalizes across
the transformer and conformer-based model architectures.
Index Terms:
Keyword detection, Knowledge distillation,
Device-Directed Speech Detection
1. Introduction
Smart devices, such as mobile phones, wearables, and smart
speakers, have become an integral part of our daily routines.
This is facilitated by the use of VAs to enable a naturalis-
tic user experience.
Users can interact with these devices
through various methods: voice-triggered commands using spe-
cific wake-words, touch-based inputs via physical or virtual but-
tons, and/on keyword-free follow-up modes. Device-directed
speech detection (DDSD) [1–4] aims to distinguish between
user queries directed at voice assistants, and background speech
or side conversations. Thus, DDSD is crucial in preventing un-
intended activations, which can occur when speech resembles
wake-words or accidental button presses, among others.
To improve the DDSD accuracy, we employ Knowledge
Distillation (KD) [5, 6], a technique that has demonstrated
promising ability in compressing model sizes while mitigating
performance trade-offs across various domains [7–14]. The mo-
tivation for applying KD to DDSD is two-fold: (i) the teacher is
trained on a much larger corpus of audio data (compared to the
audio data available for DDSD), and uses a larger model, tuned
for the ASR task, producing more robust and general acous-
tic representations. (ii) Hardware requirements often constrain
the model size and runtime memory; therefore devising a small
yet accurate DDSD model is critical for on-device deployment.
Multiple approaches in various domains such as computer vi-
sion [13, 14] and speech [7, 8, 15–17], have been used for dis-
∗equal contribution.
†work done at while Apple.
Figure 1:
Adaptive knowledge distillation for on-device
device-directed speech detection (DDSD). To bridge the do-
main gap, we add classification heads for the teacher model on
top of a pre-trained ASR encoder. These teacher classification
heads are jointly trained with the student on the DDSD task.
tillation from larger models to the smaller ones. However, little
has been investigated when it comes to DDSD task [4].
The KD can be challenging, often requiring to fine-tune
the teacher for the target task to narrow the domain gap (data
used to train the teacher and the task-specific data). However,
fine-tuning large teacher models is resource-intensive. In this
paper, we propose adaptive KD (aKD) for DDSD task, where
the teacher/student adapters and the student encoder are trained
simultaneously. This sets aKD apart from conventional KD,
which first fine-tunes the teacher model for the target task, and
then distills knowledge into the student from the frozen teacher.
In aKD, we enable a dynamic alignment of the features
between the student and teacher acoustic encoders, as well as
their decision scores for each task - keyword detection “Hey
Agent” (HAG) and “Agent” (AG), and follow-up conversa-
tions (FCO). This is depicted in Fig. 1, where the student and
teacher are comprised of an acoustic encoder and classifica-
tion heads (adapters). In this paper, the teacher encoder is a
pre-trained (frozen) acoustic encoder for ASR [18, 19]; how-
ever, the aKD method is general enough so any foundational
model can be used as the teacher. The student encoder is much
smaller than the teacher’s (∼5M vs. ∼79M parameters). In the
classification heads, the encoder’s temporal outputs are com-
bined into invocation-specific representations using attention-
summarization (Sum in Fig. 1), followed by linear classifiers
and SoftMax. We propose combining knowledge distillation
techniques as follows: first, we apply the embedding distillation
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
5788
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-30

by computing the MSE loss between the teacher and student en-
coder outputs (LED). This transfers the teacher’s representation
knowledge to the student. Second, we introduce the attention
regularization to enforce temporal consistency between the two
models (LAR). Third, in addition to the label-supervised losses
(LDDSD), we also apply pseudo-labelling (LP L), where the
teacher model’s outputs serve as targets for the student model,
aligning their predictions. By combining these losses within
aKD, we effectively distill the teacher’s expertise into the stu-
dent. In our experiments, we evaluate the impact of adding the
different KD losses, and show on the real-world data the bene-
fits of the aKD approach with those.
The following sections outline the system and our distilla-
tion framework design (Section 2). In Section 3, we define each
distillation loss, discuss its role, and introduce the aKD. Finally,
in Section 4, we show the experimental results and include abla-
tions to explore the effectiveness of different distillation setups.
2. System Overview
2.1. Device-Directed Speech Detection (DDSD) Model
Our DDSD model takes as an input temporal sequence of audio
features X = [x1, .., xT ] and classifies them as device-directed
or not y ∈{0, 1} (see Fig. 1).
We design DDSD follow-
ing the unified acoustic detector architecture proposed in [20].
The acoustic features (mel-filter banks from input audio) X are
first transformed by the encoder into an embedding sequence
E = [e1, .., eT ] through the acoustic encoder. Then, the audio
embedding E is summarized into a single vector Z by a global
attention mechanism (GA) [21]. Formally, we obtain the GA
weights as follows:
αt =
exp(st)
P
i∈{1,..,T } exp(si), and st = etθ,
(1)
where t is the frame index, and the GA linear projection θ com-
putes the frame-wise attention weights αt. These are used to
obtain the logit Z = P
i∈{1,..,T } αiei. Finally, Z is passed
through task-specific fully connected layers and SoftMax to
produce the final mitigation score p, which is the probability
of the input audio being device-directed. Finally, the joint loss
is defined as cross-entropy (CE) loss:
LDDSD = CE(y, p),
(2)
where y is a one-hot encoded vector of the ground truth label.
As in [20], we adopt multi-task learning that involves training
separate adapters for different invocation types alongside shared
multi-task learning objectives. In Figure 1, the adapters are
trained for each invocation type. The invocation types include
two keyword-based methods: ‘Hey Agent’ (HAG) and ‘Agent’
(AG), and one keyword-free follow-up conversation (FCO). The
teacher and student models share the same architecture for these
classification heads.
Acoustic Encoder. In this work, we use two types of acous-
tic encoder for our DDSD model; Transformer [22] and Con-
former [18] to investigate generalization of the proposed KD
architectures.
Recently, conformer-based acoustic encoders
have demonstrated great performance in speech recognition
tasks [18]. However, the conformer architecture has yet to be
tested for DDSD. Therefore, we aim to explore the advantages
of conformers for DDSD. Convolution and self-attention (SA)
modules are placed in a serial manner in the Conformer en-
coder. The convolution module captures local features whereas
the SA module captures the global features. We place these
modules in parallel instead to capture features at different res-
olutions [23, 24]. The SA and Convolution module output are
concatenated, and added a bottleneck layer to maintain the hid-
den size. We provide more details in Sec. 4.1.
2.2. Teacher Model
For our teacher model, we selected a conformer-based model
trained for an automatic speech recognition (ASR) task [19].
We tested several acoustic foundation models to use as a teacher
model, but the ASR model outperformed the other candidates in
our evaluations (since it was trained on in-domain data), making
it the most suitable choice. This teacher model, featuring 12
conformer layers and 79 million parameters, had its encoder
frozen. We then appended classification heads identical to those
in the DDSD model. These heads were trained on the DDSD
learning objective defined in Eq. (2).
3. Adaptive Knowledge Distillation
3.1. Knowledge Distillation
In our approach, we integrate several distillation losses to trans-
fer knowledge effectively from the teacher to student models.
Embedding Distillation (ED) aligns the acoustic representa-
tions, encouraging the student models to develop more gen-
eral representations. This enhances their performance on the
DDSD task. Pseudo Labeling (PL) further aids this process by
guiding the student model to mimic the DDSD responses of the
teacher model. This not only helps the student adapter emulate
the teacher adapter but also directly boosts the student model’s
DDSD capabilities. Moreover, we propose a novel Attention
Regularizer (AR), which aligns the temporal similarity between
student and teacher representations, facilitating context transfer
from the teacher to the student. Throughout the text, the super-
scripts S and T are employed to distinguish between the student
and teacher models, respectively.
Embedding Distillation (ED). We distill the output of the ASR
encoder of the teacher model, ZT, into the acoustic encoder of
the student model, ZS, enabling the student’s acoustic encoder
to mimic the robust acoustic representation of the teacher’s ASR
encoder. Since the ASR encoder of the teacher is frozen and not
fine-tuned for the DDSD task, it offers a more general represen-
tation, beneficial for the DDSD task. For embedding distilla-
tion, we use mean square error:
LED = MSE(ET, ES).
(3)
Pseudo Labeling (PL). To facilitate the student adapter in mim-
icking the responses of the teacher adapter, we introduce pseudo
labeling motivated by [8] we replace the ground truth target in
the DDSD objective (Eq. (2)) with the output of the teacher
model. After applying argmax to obtain the predicted labels, we
convert these to one-hot encoded targets. This pseudo-labeling
approach is defined as:
LPL = CE(ˆy, pS),
(4)
where the pseudo-label ˆy is derived by applying argmax to the
teacher model’s output probability pT.
Attention Regularization (AR). We leverage Attention Regu-
larization (AR) to transfer temporal context, which is a critical
aspect overlooked by existing methods like ED and PL. Tem-
poral context is pivotal in keyword detection as not all frames
5789

Table 1: Performance comparison of various KD approaches, reporting EER in percentages (%). Large accuracy improvements are
observed due to KD, outperforming the student model without KD. The best and second-best performances are denoted by bold and
underlined characters, respectively.
Student Architectures
Transformer
Conformer
Models
HAG
AG
FCO
HAG
AG
FCO
Baselines
Teacher
1.66
3.87
7.74
1.66
3.87
7.74
DDSD w/o KD
2.62
5.76
11.78
1.57
5.24
10.87
Conventional KD
LDDSD + LED
3.14
6.81
12.32
1.57
5.24
9.06
LDDSD + LED + LAR
2.09
5.76
12.32
1.05
5.24
9.60
LPL + LED + LAR
2.62
5.24
10.33
1.57
4.19
8.51
LDDSD + LPL + LED + LAR
2.62
5.24
10.14
1.57
4.71
8.88
Adaptive KD
LDDSD + LED
3.14
6.81
13.22
1.57
6.81
9.96
LDDSD + LED + LAR
1.57
5.24
12.86
1.57
5.76
9.42
LPL + LED + LAR
2.62
4.71
10.14
2.09
5.23
9.24
LDDSD + LPL + LED + LAR
2.09
4.87
9.96
1.05
4.19
8.70
contain the target keyword. Some timeframes are more salient
than others. To address this limitation, we propose an inno-
vative approach by introducing an additional distillation term.
This term regularizes the global attention weights between the
student and teacher models, effectively emphasizing the impor-
tance of different timeframes during the learning process.
LAR =
X
t∈{1,...,T }
(αT
t −αS
t)2,
(5)
where αt is a GA weight at t defined in Eq. (1).
Objective. The final KD objective is a weighted sum of the
above terms and a DDSD objective:
Lstudent = LDDSD + λEDLED + λPLLPL + λARLAR,
(6)
where λED, λPL, and λAR are scalar weights for the ED, PL,
and AR losses respectively. We provide details on how we tune
these weights in Section 4.1.
3.2. Adaptive Knowledge Distillation
We propose Adaptive Knowledge Distillation (aKD), a novel
method that trains the teacher adapter and the student model si-
multaneously. Knowledge distillation between domains can be
challenging, as it often requires fine-tuning the entire teacher
model for the target task to bridge the domain gap.
Con-
ventional KD addresses this by fine-tuning a domain-specific
adapter on the downstream domain without the computational
burden of fine-tuning the full teacher model. However, it in-
volves two steps:
1. The teacher model is fine-tuned on the downstream domain
with an adapter, while the encoder is frozen.
2. Both the teacher encoder and adapter are then frozen, and
knowledge is distilled to the student model.
aKD differs from conventional KD in that it trains the teacher
adapter and the student model simultaneously. This process
aligns the student and teacher adapters since they are trained to-
gether for the same target. Consequently, their knowledge gap
is minimal at the beginning of training and gradually reduces
throughout the process through KD. In contrast, conventional
knowledge distillation leads to a substantial knowledge gap that
is difficult to reduce because the teacher was already trained,
while the student was not, when the distillation process began.
By eliminating the need for the two-step process, aKD stream-
lines the training process.
4. Experiments
4.1. Implementation Details
Each model is trained on 32 × NVIDIA V100 40GB GPUs for
100 epochs with an batch size of 256. We employ the Adam op-
timizer [25] with an initial learning rate of 1 × 10−7. To further
enhance convergence, we implement an adaptive learning rate
scheduler that reduces the learning rate when a validation met-
ric plateaus. For the student loss in Eq. 6, we set the weights
as λED=1 × 102, λPL=1, and λAR=1. We conducted a grid
search of the weights on our held-out validation set. As input,
40-D Mel-filterbank features at 100 fps are used, and the cur-
rent frame is augmented with 6 neighbouring frames, resulting
in 280-D features. For the transformer-based student model, the
acoustic encoder is comprised of 8 transformer encoder blocks
with 256 hidden units, 4 heads within the SA module, and 1,024
hidden units in the feed-forward layer. For conformer-based
student model, we use 8 layers of conformer encoder blocks,
where each block has the SA module with 168 hidden units
and 4 heads, a convolution module with kernel size 31, and
Macaron-style feed-forward layers with 672 hidden units. The
model sizes for both Transformer and Conformer based student
models are similar, both being around 5M parameters (com-
pared to 79M parameters in the teacher).
4.2. Dataset and Evaluation Metrics
We used in-house collected training data, that consists of 2.7K
hours of audio samples which includes the three invocation
types and users interacting with VA in different contexts, as
in [20, 26]. These were further augmented with room impulse
responses and echo residuals, as in previous works [20,26,27].
To evaluate our model, we also utilized in-house evaluation
sets tailored to each invocation type. We report Equal-error-
rate (EER) per invocation type.
We established two base-
line teacher models trained from scratch following Step 1 of
conventional KD described in Section 3, serving as the upper
bound, and DDSD model trained from scratch, representing our
lower bound. Since the EER only provides a single representa-
tive value, we further plot the Detection Error Tradeoff (DET)
curves in Fig. 2 to investigate the impact of distillation on dif-
ferent False Accept Rate (FAR) thresholds.
5790

Figure 2: DET curves on different invocation types. The red dotted line indicates the EER line, where the False Reject Ratio (FRR) and
False Accept Ratio (FAR) are equal. The proposed aKD method was used for this plot.
4.3. Results
We report all our experimental results on DDSD in Table 1. The
table presents results for various student architectures, invoca-
tion types, and KD methods. We first see that KD based results
bring the performance boost across both Transformer and Con-
former architectures compared to the DDSD model without KD.
Notably, the accuracy improvement of aKD with the Conformer
architecture is substantial for keyword-based invocations (HAG
and AG), where aKD achieves an average relative gain of 26%.
Additionally, the relative improvement in keyword-free invoca-
tions (FCO) is 19%. It highlights the advantages of knowledge
distillation for DDSD task. In the following section, we delve
into the components that contribute to the performance boost.
4.3.1. aKD vs Conventional KD
We begin by comparing conventional KD with our proposed
aKD. aKD consistently outperforms conventional KD across
both transformer and conformer student architectures and all
invocation types. For example, with a conformer-based stu-
dent model and all KD losses utilized, aKD substantially out-
performs conventional KD in EER. It shows improvements of
0.52% (33% relative) on HAG, 0.52% (11% relative) on AG,
and 0.18% (2% relative) on FCO. One possible explanation for
these results is that when both the teacher and student adapters
are optimized jointly, knowledge is progressively distilled into
the student model during the teacher’s training. This approach
effectively reduces the gap between the models over time. In
contrast, conventional KD methods often lead to a knowledge
gap between the student and teacher models at the start of train-
ing, which can hinder the learning process.
4.3.2. KD Losses
Next, we delve into the contributions of each distillation term
outlined in Section 3.1.
We found that the model utiliz-
ing all distillation losses achieves the best or the competitive
performance.
Comparing models trained with and without
LAR, we demonstrate the performance gain, highlighting LAR’s
temporal-wise context distillation ability. Furthermore, replac-
ing the true targets of LDDSD in Eq 2 with pseudo-labels in LPL
leads to performance improvements, particularly for AG and
FCO, though it degrades performance on HAG. Interestingly,
combining LDDSD and LPL results in the best performance, un-
derscoring their complementary nature. Since there are inherent
relations between these losses, using all losses together brings
more robustness to the model training overall. Further opti-
mizations can be made by a more exhaustive search of the loss
weights in the final loss.
4.3.3. Conformer VS Transformer Student Models
To demonstrate the generalizability of our distillation frame-
work, we compare the distillation results of two different stu-
dent architectures. We first investigate the effectiveness of KD
on a Conformer model for the DDSD task, a model architec-
ture that has not been previously reported for this task. When
training models from scratch, Conformer shows superior per-
formance compared to the Transformer-based model. To further
investigate impact of KD on conformer, we apply the same dis-
tillation technique used for the Transformer to the Conformer.
As expected, KD improves the performance of both models.
The aKD approach consistently outperforms conventional KD,
enhancing the performance of both architectures. Interestingly,
we observe that the Conformer architecture outperforms the
Transformer-based one, aligning with the findings of previous
work [18] on the advantages of Conformers in the acoustic
domain. Additionally, we compare the DET curves between
Transformer and Conformer-based student models in Figure 2.
The results show that applying aKD improves the DET curves,
reducing the area under the curves for both models across all
invocation types.
5. Conclusion
This paper addresses the challenge of improving device-
directed speech detection accuracy in on-device architectures
with limited computing resources. Specifically, we introduced
an adaptive knowledge distillation approach that transfers ef-
fectively the knowledge from the teacher to student. In this
approach, we (i) unified the distillation losses focusing on the
score, representation and attention distillation, quantifying the
impact of each loss on DDSD accuracy, and showing their gen-
eralization across different model architectures (attention-only
and conformer-based). (ii) We tackled a challenging problem of
multi-invocation DDSD and showed that our approach reduces
EER by an average of 22% across different invocation types,
and by 22.5% overall across transformer and conformer-based
student architectures and invocations. This makes it a valuable
solution for enhancing the user experience of voice-activated
devices while being able to deploy it on device due to the small
model size. While in this work we did not explore using other
teacher models, that is part of our ongoing research.
5791

6. References
[1] T. N. Sainath and C. Parada, “Convolutional Neural Networks for
Small-Footprint Keyword Spotting,” in Proc. Interspeech 2015.
[2] M. Wu, S. Panchapagesan, M. Sun, J. Gu, R. Thomas, S. N. P. Vi-
taladevuni, B. Hoffmeister, and A. Mandal, “Monophone-Based
Background Modeling for Two-Stage On-Device Wake Word De-
tection,” in Proc. ICASPP 2018.
[3] S. H. Mallidi, R. Maas, K. Goehner, A. Rastrow, S. Matsoukas,
and B. Hoffmeister, “Device-Directed Utterance Detection,” in
Proc. Interspeech 2018.
[4] V. Garg, O. Rudovic, P. Dighe, A. H. Abdelaziz, E. Marchi,
S. Adya, C. Dhir, and A. Tewfik, “Device-directed speech detec-
tion: Regularization via distillation for weakly-supervised mod-
els,” in Proc. Interspeech 2022.
[5] G. Hinton, “Distilling the knowledge in a neural network,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:1503.02531, 2015.
[6] J. Gou, B. Yu, S. J. Maybank, and D. Tao, “Knowledge distilla-
tion: A survey,” International Journal of Computer Vision, vol.
129, no. 6, pp. 1789–1819, 2021.
[7] H.-J. Chang, S.-w. Yang, and H.-y. Lee, “Distilhubert: Speech
representation learning by layer-wise distillation of hidden-unit
bert,” in ICASSP 2022-2022 IEEE International Conference on
Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2022,
pp. 7087–7091.
[8] S. Gandhi, P. von Platen, and A. M. Rush, “Distil-whisper: Robust
knowledge distillation via large-scale pseudo labelling,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2311.00430, 2023.
[9] S. Muralidharan,
S. T. Sreenivas,
R. B. Joshi,
M. Cho-
chowski, M. Patwary, M. Shoeybi, B. Catanzaro, J. Kautz, and
P. Molchanov, “Compact language models via pruning and knowl-
edge distillation,” in The Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on
Neural Information Processing Systems, 2024.
[10] T. Asami, R. Masumura, Y. Yamaguchi, H. Masataki, and
Y. Aono, “Domain adaptation of dnn acoustic models using
knowledge distillation,” in 2017 IEEE International Conference
on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE,
2017, pp. 5185–5189.
[11] Y. Yang, J. Qiu, M. Song, D. Tao, and X. Wang, “Distilling knowl-
edge from graph convolutional networks,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recogni-
tion, 2020, pp. 7074–7083.
[12] J. Cui, B. Kingsbury, B. Ramabhadran, G. Saon, T. Sercu,
K. Audhkhasi, A. Sethy, M. Nussbaum-Thom, and A. Rosenberg,
“Knowledge distillation across ensembles of multilingual mod-
els for low-resource languages,” in 2017 IEEE International Con-
ference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2017, pp. 4825–4829.
[13] G. Chen, W. Choi, X. Yu, T. Han, and M. Chandraker, “Learn-
ing efficient object detection models with knowledge distillation,”
Advances in neural information processing systems, vol. 30, 2017.
[14] D. Chen, J.-P. Mei, H. Zhang, C. Wang, Y. Feng, and C. Chen,
“Knowledge distillation with the reused teacher classifier,” in Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition, 2022, pp. 11 933–11 942.
[15] K. Jang, S. Kim, S. Yun, and H.-R. Kim, “Recycle-and-distill:
Universal compression strategy for transformer-based speech ssl
models with attention map reusing and masking distillation,”
in 24th International Speech Communication Association, Inter-
speech 2023.
International Speech Communication Association,
2023, pp. 316–320.
[16] Y. Peng, Y. Sudo, S. Muhammad, and S. Watanabe, “Dphubert:
Joint distillation and pruning of self-supervised speech models,”
in Proceedings of the Annual Conference of the International
Speech Communication Association, INTERSPEECH, vol. 2023,
2023, pp. 62–66.
[17] Y. Lee, K. JANG, J. Goo, Y. Jung, and H.-R. Kim, “Fithubert:
Going thinner and deeper for knowledge distillation of speech
self-supervised learning,” in 23rd Annual Conference of the In-
ternational Speech Communication Association, INTERSPEECH
2022.
ISCA, 2022, pp. 3588–3592.
[18] A. Gulati, J. Qin, C.-C. Chiu, N. Parmar, Y. Zhang, J. Yu, W. Han,
S. Wang, Z. Zhang, Y. Wu et al., “Conformer: Convolution-
augmented transformer for speech recognition,” Interspeech 2020,
2020.
[19] Z. Yao, D. Wu, X. Wang, B. Zhang, F. Yu, C. Yang, Z. Peng,
X. Chen, L. Xie, and X. Lei, “Wenet: Production oriented stream-
ing and non-streaming end-to-end speech recognition toolkit,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.01547, 2021.
[20] O. Rudovic, W. Chang, V. Garg, P. Dighe, P. Simha, J. Berkowitz,
A. H. Abdelaziz, S. Kajarekar, E. Marchi, and S. Adya, “Less is
more: A unified architecture for device-directed speech detection
with multiple invocation types,” in ICASSP 2023 - 2023 IEEE In-
ternational Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Process-
ing (ICASSP), 2023.
[21] H. Wang, Y. Zou, and W. Wang, “A global-local attention frame-
work for weakly labelled audio tagging,” in ICASSP. IEEE, 2021.
[22] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A. N.
Gomez, L. u. Kaiser, and I. Polosukhin, “Attention is All You
Need,” in Proc. NeurIPS 2017.
[23] C. Szegedy, W. Liu, Y. Jia, P. Sermanet, S. Reed, D. Anguelov,
D. Erhan, V. Vanhoucke, and A. Rabinovich, “Going deeper with
convolutions,” 2014. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/
1409.4842
[24] Y. Peng, S. Dalmia, I. Lane, and S. Watanabe, “Branchformer:
Parallel mlp-attention architectures to capture local and global
context for speech recognition and understanding,”
2022.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2207.02971
[25] D. P. Kingma and J. Ba, “Adam: A method for stochastic opti-
mization,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6980, 2014.
[26] D. Wagner, A. Churchill, S. Sigtia, and E. Marchi, “Selma: A
speech-enabled language model for virtual assistant interactions,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.19377, 2025.
[27] T. Higuchi, A. Brueggeman, M. Delfarah, and S. Shum, “Mul-
tichannel voice trigger detection based on transform-average-
concatenate,” in 2024 IEEE International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech, and Signal Processing Workshops (ICASSPW).
IEEE, 2024, pp. 510–514.
5792

