warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
CAPR: Confidence-Aware Prompt Refinement in Large Language Models
Jen-Tzung Chien1,2, Po-Chun Huang2
1Inst. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University, Taiwan
2Institute of Computer and Comms. Security, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University, Taiwan
jtchien@nycu.edu.tw, qmao.cs11@nycu.edu.tw
Abstract
Mitigating hallucination in large language models (LLMs) is
crucial to ensure trustworthy generation. A meaningful solu-
tion to tackle this issue involves eliciting a reliable confidence
score in the generation. However, the previous methods only
focused on using white-box models for short-form generation.
The solutions to long-form sentences with black-box models
remain very limited. This study proposes a reliable black-box
confidence elicitation for long-form generation by leveraging
the external knowledge, inspired by retrieval augmented gener-
ation. In particular, this paper proposes the confidence-aware
prompt refinement (CAPR) to modify user prompts to ensure
trustworthy responses. The prompt refiner is trained by maxi-
mizing the rewards based on the confidence and the accuracy of
generated sentences. Experiments show that CAPR effectively
elicits reliable confidence scores. The refined prompts enable
LLMs to produce reliable responses with calibrated confidence.
Index Terms: large language model, prompt refinement, hallu-
cination mitigation, question answering
1. Introduction
The ability of the current open-domain dialogue system, em-
powered by large language models (LLMs), has changed the
user behaviors in utilizing natural language applications. The
open-domain dialogue system, which was initially designed for
chit-chat purpose, has been transformed into a general system
that can handle various users’ queries. For example, instead
of asking search engines about factoid questions, people cur-
rently use an open-domain dialogue system like ChatGPT [1]
and expect to find the helpful and right answer. Unfortunately,
such kind of system does not always provide reliable answers to
individual queries due to the issue of hallucination [2,3]. Hallu-
cinated answers generally refers to those misleading responses
that are presented in a confident and seemingly plausible man-
ner. This issue does exist because of twofold reasons. The first
one is the inherent limitations in LLMs, resulting in insufficient
knowledge during training, while the second one is the quality
of the input prompts at test time.
To address the limitation in LLM capability, some recent
studies have presented the mechanisms to elicit a confidence
score indicating the level of model certainty for a response gen-
eration [4]. In a white-box setting, such a score was measured
by accessing an internal information of token likelihood from a
visible and tunable model. However, this approach is infeasible
to black-box models, like ChatGPT, due to the inaccessibility of
internal model information. A straightforward method to elicit
confidence scores from black-box LLMs involves a verbal elici-
tation by using a prompt [5]. Unfortunately, some prior findings
have demonstrated that black-box LLMs tend to be overconfi-
dent in their elicited scores. To mitigate generation of overcon-
fident responses, verbal confidence elicitation was performed
by aggregating several confidence scores [6–8]. This approach,
however, required multiple prompting steps for a single query in
an aggregation procedure, leading to a time-consuming prompt
strategy. Another issue with the previous works is that the ma-
jority of the solutions were tailored only for short-form gener-
ation, such as question-answering (QA) tasks [9–12], without
considering long-form responses [13,14].
In addition, the limitation of prompt quality [15, 16] was
tackled by designing the sophisticated prompt strategies to en-
hance the trustworthiness in LLM responses. A notable solution
was based on the in-context learning (ICL) [17]. However, this
advanced prompt strategy is primarily feasible to short-form
generation tasks. Long-form generation, such as a long-form
answering system, poses a unique challenge to deal with the
scenario of searching the extended and detailed answers from
a short input question with very limited information. The uti-
lization of ICL to cope with this scenario did not yield signifi-
cant improvement because the in-context demonstrations were
usually too lengthy, potentially confusing the generation of an-
swers. Additionally, the extensive input tokens for such demon-
strations consume a large token capacity within the black-box
model, which results in an expensive prompting process.
This paper addresses both limitations and proposes two so-
lutions. Firstly, a knowledge-based confidence elicitation is in-
troduced to ensure a regularized confidence score from black-
box LLMs for a reliable long-form generation. In lieu of merely
averaging scores from multiple black-box models, this approach
leverages external knowledge to calibrate the confidence score,
drawing the inspiration from retrieval-augmented generation
(RAG). Secondly, the elicited confidence scores are utilized to
train a prompt refiner, based on the so-called confidence-aware
prompt refinement (CAPR) model, to address the challenge of
the limited prompting options in long-form generation tasks.
The proposed method is evaluated on the challenging long-form
QA task using different black-box LLMs, demonstrating the ad-
vantages of the suggested approaches.
2. Confidence Elicitation & Prompt
Refinement
2.1. Confidence elicitation in large language models
Confidence elicitation aims to provide a regularized confi-
dence score to reflect truth and correctness of an LLM re-
sponse, thereby helping users gauge the trustworthiness. The re-
lated methods are categorized into white-box and black-box ap-
proaches. White-box methods commonly leverage the model’s
internal mechanisms using the controllable LLM, such as prob-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
3264
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-834

ability consistency and weight stability during inference for to-
ken generation [12,18]. Conversely, black-box methods, which
interact solely with the inputs and outputs of the LLM, and
elicit the confidence scores verbally by incorporating an input
prompt for confidence score generation. However, prior works
[6–8] have demonstrated that black-box LLMs often exhibit too
high score, typically ranging between 0.8 and 1 (the highest
score), and accordingly generate overconfident responses. This
discrepancy reflects the unreliability in black-box confidence
scores, particularly in the highly-secured applications such as
healthcare and finance, where accurate assessments are vital.
To address this issue, the methods to LLM responses such as
using multiple sampling for consistency estimation or employ-
ing external white-box model to generate reliability estimates
have been proposed [6–8]. These approaches, however, lead to
costly prompting as the confidence score elicitation needs the
repeated prompting. Different from the previous works, this
study introduces the knowledge-based confidence elicitation by
utilizing external knowledge based on information retrieval to
reliably elicit confidence scores at a reduced cost.
2.2. Prompt refinement to mitigate hallucination
The hallucination issue in LLMs can be mitigated through
the hand-crafted prompt engineering techniques, which are re-
quired for trustworthy generation. For example, the so-called
rephrase and rewrite (RaR) in [19] employed a hard prompt
template for prompt refinement where an input question is aug-
mented with a fixed hard prompt in a form of
{Question} Rephrase and expand the question, and respond.
This method stimulates LLMs to fulfill a reasoning process via
rephrasing and rewriting, and empirically outperformed the tra-
ditional prompt strategies in various tasks. Additionally, the
prompt strategy based on a Self-Polish method [20] took the
advantage of LLM for language understanding where an itera-
tive refinement procedure was performed through rewriting the
questions to enhance the prompting performance. On the other
hand, an alternative prompt strategy called the TextGrad [21]
method introduced the textual-gradient descent, which was con-
ceptually inspired by the backpropagation scheme to optimize
the prompts given by LLMs. In general, the aforementioned
methods were proposed to improve the quality of responses as
well as increase the reliability of LLM outputs.
3. Confidence-Aware Prompt Refinement
Figure 1: Overview of knowledge-based confidence elicitation.
3.1. Knowledge-based confidence elicitation
This study presents a knowledge-based confidence elicitation
(KCE) framework to improve the alignment between confi-
dence score and generation accuracy by using black-box LLMs
like GPT-3.5 and GPT-4. This KCE method is implemented by
assessing the semantic similarity between generated responses
and factual knowledge. As shown in Figure 1, given an input
question x, this framework starts by generating a set of ini-
tial responses by along with the corresponding verbalized confi-
dence scores C based on different prompt strategies P. The sys-
tem outputs by are evaluated by LLM to determine scores C =
LLM(x, P). At the same time, the external knowledge from k
documents is retrieved via a retriever {dj}k
j=1 = Ret(x) by
using question x. Then, the knowledge-based confidence elici-
tation KCE(·) is determined by calibrating the confidence score
based on information sources from multiple prompts and multi-
ple documents, referring to retrieval augmented generation, via
Celicit = λ · C + (1 −λ) · Sim
(1)
where λ is used to balance the influences from the verbalized
confidence C and the similarity score, computed by Sim =
f(by, {dj}k
j=1) = max1≤j≤k

by·dj
|by||dj|

, which is measured by
a semantic discriminator f(·) between knowledge documents
{dj}k
j=1 and current answer by. The confidence score C is there-
fore penalized with low similarity. This calibration would like
to regularize LLM outputs for trustworthy generation.
Figure 2: Overview of confidence-aware prompt refinement.
3.2. Confidence-aware adapter for prompt refinement
In addition to confidence calibration [22,23], this paper further
mitigates hallucination in LLM through a reinforced prompt
refinement driven by a specialized reward function [24, 25].
A new method called confidence-aware prompt refinement
(CAPR) is proposed and implemented as depicted in Figure 2.
This method leverages the output of KCE to calculate a reward
function for training a reinforcement learning (RL) agent to re-
fine prompt and update answer by. By fulfilling RL with human
feedback (RLHF), an optimization process is formulated as a
Markov decision process. Given a query or question x, at is
defined as a token generated by RL agent at time step t. No-
tably, the state in RL is defined as an augmented prompt input
st = {x, a0, · · · , at}. This state at the end of the trajectory,
sT , is known as the final refined prompt. Accordingly, the RL
agent is built by using a pre-trained white-box LLM, where the
only trainable parameters are the adapter layers with parameter
θ. The optimization process in CAPR is specially designed for
long-form generation for question answering.
3.2.1. Confidence-aware reward function
Reward function rt plays a crucial role when fine-tuning an
LLM with RL using adapter θ. The reward is basically designed
3265

to assess the quality and reliability of the generated answer by
from a query x. It can be calculated by using the expected cali-
bration error (ECE) and the generation accuracy (ACC) as
rt ≜R(sT , byt, yt, Celicit) = −ECE + ACC
(2)
where y is the ground truth response, by is the response with
the refined prompt sT , and Celicit is the elicited confidence from
KCE at time step T. Optimizing this function involves mini-
mizing the ECE and maximizing the accuracy, likely leading to
reliable and accurate outputs [26, 27]. However, the definition
of accuracy may vary over different downstream tasks.
Following standard RLHF with human feedback y, such
a reward R(·) is only calculated at the end of trajectory τ =
{τt} = {sT , byt, yt, rt, Celicit} at time step T, which is quite
similar to the scenario in the contextual bandit algorithm. In
particular, ECE is defined by measuring the accumulated dis-
tance between the accuracy and the confidence over the model
predictions across M bins with each bin having the length |Bm|
ECE =
M
X
m=1
|Bm|
n
|Accuracy(Bm) −Confidence(Bm)|
(3)
where n denotes the number of QA training samples within a
bin Bm. Predictions are sorted into these bins based on their
confidence scores, and the ECE is computed as the weighted
average of the absolute differences between the accuracy and
the confidence for different samples in individual bins.
The confidence-aware reward is subsequently computed
and utilized for training a prompt refiner [28] via adapter
layer θ within the white-box LLM by employing the proxi-
mal policy optimization (PPO) algorithm [29]. This trick can
avoid fine-tuning LLMs which is time-consuming.
The re-
fined prompt sT is formed by transforming original question
x with the sequence of tokens generated by the policy net-
work πθ, where each generated token can be formulated as
at ∼πθ(at|x, a0, · · · , at−1). Since by and C are generated by
black-box LLMs, the proposed learning algorithm follows the
implementation based on the hybrid black-box and white-box
LLMs where black-box LLM is used to provide the calibrated
confidence Celicit and white-box LLM is employed to train a
prompt refiner θ via continuous learning with RL, which can be
fitted to long-form answer by.
3.2.2. Adapter learning for prompt refinement
PPO is implemented as an RL solution to optimize the adapter
or policy πθ by maximizing the expected reward [30]. The pol-
icy gradient method is applied for optimization. In particular,
the learning objective is to maximize the expected reward
E[R(sT , byt, yt, Celicit)] =
Z
R(sT , byt, yt, Celicit)πθ(at|st)dat.
(4)
The optimization problem is formulated by maximizing
J(θ) = Eτ∼πθ [R(τ)]
(5)
where the refined prompt is sampled from CAPR trajectory τ
leveraged by KCE. Notably, the policy gradient is derived by
∇θJ(θ) = Eτ∼πθ [∇θ log πθ(at|st) R(sT , byt, yt, Celicit)] .
(6)
Following the PPO process, which incorporates a clipped sur-
rogate objective to constrain the magnitude of policy updates
with an advantage function [29], ensuring that these updates
stay closely aligned with the previous policy, the optimal policy
parameter is estimated by
θ∗= arg max
θ
X
πθ(x)
Eτ∼πθ [R(sT , byt, yt, Celicit)] .
(7)
By optimizing the prompt refiner θ with a carefully de-
signed confidence-aware reward function, the proposed CAPR
is trained via a gradient ascent algorithm for a fine-tuned LLM
θnew ←θold + α∇θJ(θ)|θ=θold
(8)
using a learning rate α. Finally, the optimal prompt is refined
and sampled by the optimal policy a∗
t ∼πθ∗(at|st). CAPR is
implemented for trustworthy generation as Algorithm 1.
Algorithm 1: Training procedure for prompt refiner
Require: initial policy θ0, retriever function Ret(·),
reward function R(·), knowledge confidence
elicitation KCE(·) and prompt refiner πθ
initialize θ∗= θ0
repeat
sample question and ground truth pair (x, y)
retrieve k documents {dj}k
j=1 = Ret(x)
for each step t do
generate prompt token by at ∼πθ(x)
end
for each step t do
generate answer byt and elicit confidence
Celicit = KCE({dj}k
j=1, x, {at}T
t=0)
compute reward function
rt = R(sT , byt, yt, Celicit)
collect trajectory with transition
τt = {st, {at}T
t=0, rt, st+1, Celicit}
end
update prompt refiner πθ(·) using PPO with τ
until convergence or max iteration
return θ∗
4. Experiments
4.1. Experimental setup
4.1.1. Backbone and prompt refiner models
This study employed GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 as black-box LLMs
in the experiments due to their superior performance on the pre-
vious reasoning benchmarks such as MMLU, GLUE, SQuAD,
and RACE. Furthermore, these models are among the most
widely utilized black-box LLMs and have been applied in nu-
merous applications. For the prompt refinement model, this
study employed the adapters configured in white-box model
based on LLamA2 [31], which underwent fine-tuning by using
the PPO algorithm to enhance the user’s initial prompts, thereby
resulting in improving the responses, which were generated by
the black-box LLMs. The efficient fine-tuning of the prompt
refiner was proposed by utilizing a sophisticated confidence-
aware reward function and adapter layers. LLaMA2-adapter
architecture was the same as that in [31]. λ = 0.8 was used.
4.1.2. Experimental dataset
The ASQA (answer summaries for questions which are ambigu-
ous) dataset [32] was selected as the benchmark for long-form
3266

QA task. This dataset is a well-established resource in the field
of closed-book, open-domain QA tasks, providing a compre-
hensive collection of real-world questions and their correspond-
ing answers in a detailed and paragraph-length style across
a vast range of topics.
The prompt strategies using vanilla,
chain-of-thought (COT) [33], multi-step [34], top-k sampling
and self-probing were considered. Given the ambiguous ques-
tions, the KCE was able to elicit accurate confidence scores
from black-box LLMs. Concurrently, the CAPR was skilled at
revising ambiguous questions into more precise ones, thereby
guiding the black-box LLMs to produce better outputs.
4.1.3. Evaluation metrics
Several evaluation metrics were employed to assess the quality
of the proposed method. ROUGE-L [35] measures the accuracy
by comparing the longest common subsequence between gener-
ated and ground truth texts. Consistent with the previous study
setting [12], this work defines ROUGE-L score as the accuracy
metric for long-form QA, using a threshold of 0.3. ECE eval-
uates how well the model’s predicted probabilities align with
the actual outcomes, while the area under the receiver operating
characteristic curve (AUROC) gauges the model’s ability to pre-
dict confidence accurately in classifying responses. Generally
speaking, these metrics provide a comprehensive evaluation of
the model’s accuracy, trustworthiness, and prediction capability.
Table 1: Performance comparison of different long-form gener-
ation methods on different black-box LLMs.
ROUGE-L (↑)
ECE (↓)
AUROC (↑)
GPT-3.5
Original LLM
0.1821
0.7598
0.5512
Self-Polish [20]
0.2163
0.7316
0.5125
RaR [19]
0.1423
0.7746
0.5631
TextGrad [21]
0.2137
0.7222
0.6625
CAPR w/ KCE
0.2377
0.6359
0.6688
GPT-4
Original LLM
0.1945
0.7562
0.6002
Self-Polish [20]
0.2121
0.7452
0.5833
RaR [19]
0.2407
0.7010
0.5203
TextGrad [21]
0.2155
0.6826
0.5942
CAPR w/ KCE
0.2648
0.6466
0.8065
Table 2: Ablation studies on the benefit of KCE in CAPR with
different prompt strategies and black-box LLMs.
Vanilla
COT
Multi-step
ECE (↓)
GPT-3.5
0.7082
0.7778
0.7548
GPT-3.5 w/ KCE
0.5906
0.5260
0.5975
GPT-4
0.7327
0.8950
0.7961
GPT-4 w/ KCE
0.6086
0.6932
0.6048
AUROC (↑)
GPT-3.5
0.5255
0.5440
0.5039
GPT-3.5 w/ KCE
0.6071
0.7268
0.6940
GPT-4
0.5972
0.5769
0.4873
GPT-4 w/ KCE
0.6437
0.8622
0.7529
4.2. Experimental results
The results shown in Table 1 demonstrate the performance of
different prompt refinement methods, including Self-Polish [20]
Table 3: Ablation studies on reward functions
ROUGE-L (↑)
ECE (↓)
AUROC (↑)
CAPR w/o KCE
0.1808
0.6334
0.51113
CAPR w/ ACC
0.2151
0.7679
0.5340
CAPR w/ KCE
0.2226
0.6042
0.5777
and TextGrad [21], in generating reliable prompts for long-form
QA tasks. Original LLM is the case of standard prompt. Self-
Polish leveraged the LLM to iteratively improve the question,
while Textgrad employed textual gradient descent with GPT-
4 to align responses close to ground truth answers. Another
method, rephrase and respond (RaR), used a structured prompt
to simultaneously rephrase and answer the question. The pro-
posed approach notably enhances the ROUGE-L, ECE and AU-
ROC scores, boosting the reliability and accuracy of confi-
dence assessments in LLM outputs. This set of experiments
shows that CAPR with KCE performs well in different black-
box LLMs, emphasizing its generalization performance. This
improvement is crucial for applications that depend on precise
and dependable model responses, enhancing the user trust and
the utility of the generated content. The results using GPT-4 are
consistently better than those using GPT-3.5.
4.3. Ablation studies
To demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed methods, abla-
tion studies are conducted to evaluate the knowledge-base con-
fidence elicitation (KCE) and the reward function within CAPR.
Table 2 shows the evaluation on the effect of KCE in different
traditional prompt strategies, showing that incorporating KCE
consistently leads to more reliable confidence scores and bet-
ter generation results in terms of ECE and AUROC. In Table 3
with the results on ROUGE-L, ECE and AUROC, CAPR with-
out KCE represents the case of using CAPR with only verbal-
ized confidence score C while CAPR with ACC implies CAPR
using accuracy as the sole reward function. CAPR with KCE
is the proposed method using Celicit. This comparative study
on reward function highlights the synergistic relationship be-
tween KCE and CAPR, demonstrating that each component en-
hances overall performance. The analysis clearly shows how
KCE complements CAPR and significantly improves prompt
generation for long-form answering in different metrics.
5. Conclusions
This paper introduced two complimentary approaches to dehal-
lucination in black-box LLMs. These two methods were in-
tegrated to strengthen the solution by using the external knowl-
edge to calibrate LLM outputs, and cross-referencing them with
reliable prompt to improve reliability of response. The hybrid
solution ensures that it is likely to generate factual responses
given by the grounded prompt. The prompt refinement was iter-
atively performed by fine-tuning LLMs according to a prompt
generator based on reinforcement learning, using the feedback
from black-box LLMs and helping the generation of reliable
and contextually relevant answers over time, which were fitted
to the applications of long-form generation. By integrating the
confidence calibration and the prompt refinement, the proposed
method enhanced the trustworthiness of black-box models such
as GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 over ASQA task, minimizing the hal-
lucinations while simultaneously improving both accuracy and
reliability of their responses.
3267

6. References
[1] J. Achiam, S. Adler, S. Agarwal, L. Ahmad, I. Akkaya, F. L. Ale-
man, D. Almeida, J. Altenschmidt, S. Altman, S. Anadkat et al.,
“GPT-4 Technical Report,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774,
2023.
[2] J.-T. Chien and Z.-X. Tai, “Reinforced retrieval to avoid halluci-
nation in large language models,” in Proc. of International Joint
Conference on Neural Networks, 2025, pp. 1–7.
[3] M. Rohmatillah, B. Aditya, L.-J. Yang, B. G. Ngo, W. Sulaiman,
and J.-T. Chien, “Promoting mental self-disclosure in a spoken
dialogue system,” in Proc. of Annual Conference of International
Speech Communication Association, 2023, pp. 670–671.
[4] T.-C. Luo and J.-T. Chien, “Variational dialogue generation with
normalizing flows,” in Proc. of IEEE International Conference on
Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing, 2021, pp. 7778–7782.
[5] K. Tian, E. Mitchell, A. Zhou, A. Sharma, R. Rafailov, H. Yao,
C. Finn, and C. Manning, “Just ask for calibration: Strategies for
eliciting calibrated confidence scores from language models fine-
tuned with human feedback,” in Proc. of Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2023.
[6] M. Xiong, Z. Hu, X. Lu, Y. LI, J. Fu, J. He, and B. Hooi, “Can
LLMs express their uncertainty? an empirical evaluation of confi-
dence elicitation in LLMs,” in Proc. of International Conference
on Learning Representations, 2024.
[7] Z. Lin, S. Trivedi, and J. Sun, “Generating with confidence: Un-
certainty quantification for black-box large language models,”
Transactions on Machine Learning Research, 2024.
[8] M. Jiang, Y. Ruan, S. Huang, S. Liao, S. Pitis, R. B. Grosse,
and J. Ba, “Calibrating language models via augmented prompt
ensembles,” in Proc. of Workshop on Challenges in Deployable
Generative AI at International Conference on Machine Learning,
2023.
[9] M. Gabburo, S. Garg, R. Koncel-Kedziorski, and A. Moschitti,
“Learning answer generation using supervision from automatic
question answering evaluators,” in Proc. of Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics, 2023, pp. 8389–8403.
[10] ——, “SQUARE: Automatic question answering evaluation using
multiple positive and negative references,” in Proc. of Interna-
tional Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing, 2023,
pp. 20–28.
[11] Y. Dong, K. Luo, X. Jiang, Z. Jin, and G. Li, “PACE: Improv-
ing prompt with actor-critic editing for large language model,” in
Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 2024,
pp. 7304–7323.
[12] L. Kuhn, Y. Gal, and S. Farquhar, “Semantic uncertainty: Linguis-
tic invariances for uncertainty estimation in natural language gen-
eration,” in Proc. of International Conference on Learning Repre-
sentations, 2023.
[13] J.-T. Chien, H.-T. Wang, and C.-H. Lee, “Contrastive meta learn-
ing for soft prompts using dynamic mixup,” in Proc. of Interna-
tional Joint Conference on Neural Networks, 2024, pp. 1–6.
[14] J.-T. Chien and C.-C. Chen, “Mask consistency and contrast reg-
ularization for prompt-based learning,” in Proc. of International
Joint Conference on Neural Networks, 2024, pp. 1–7.
[15] M.-Y. Chen, M. Rohmatillah, C.-H. Lee, and J.-T. Chien, “Meta
learning for domain agnostic soft prompt,” in Proc. of IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing,
2023, pp. 1–5.
[16] J.-T. Chien, M.-Y. Chen, C.-H. Lee, and J.-H. Xue, “Meta soft
prompting and learning,” APSIPA Transactions on Signal and In-
formation Processing, vol. 13, no. 5, pp. 1–30, 2024.
[17] F. Petroni, T. Rockt¨aschel, S. Riedel, P. Lewis, A. Bakhtin, Y. Wu,
and A. Miller, “Language models as knowledge bases?” in Proc.
of Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2019, pp.
2463–2473.
[18] K. Li, O. Patel, F. Vi´egas, H. Pfister, and M. Wattenberg,
“Inference-time intervention: Eliciting truthful answers from a
language model,” in Proc. of Conference on Neural Information
Processing Systems, 2023.
[19] Y. Deng, W. Zhang, Z. Chen, and Q. Gu, “Rephrase and respond:
Let large language models ask better questions for themselves,”
2024.
[20] Z. Xi, S. Jin, Y. Zhou, R. Zheng, S. Gao, J. Liu, T. Gui, Q. Zhang,
and X. Huang, “Self-polish: Enhance reasoning in large language
models via problem refinement,” in Proc. of Conference on Em-
pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2023.
[21] M. Yuksekgonul, F. Bianchi, J. Boen, S. Liu, Z. Huang,
C. Guestrin, and J. Zou, “Textgrad: Automatic ”differentiation”
via text,” 2024.
[22] J. Geng, F. Cai, Y. Wang, H. Koeppl, P. Nakov, and I. Gurevych,
“A survey of confidence estimation and calibration in large lan-
guage models,” in Proc. of Conference of the North American
Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Hu-
man Language Technologies, 2024, pp. 6577–6595.
[23] B. Huang, H. Sharma, and Y. Mao, “Enhancing language model
alignment: A confidence-based approach to label smoothing,” in
Proc. of Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, 2024, pp. 21 341–21 352.
[24] H. Lightman, V. Kosaraju, Y. Burda, H. Edwards, B. Baker,
T. Lee, J. Leike, J. Schulman, I. Sutskever, and K. Cobbe, “Let’s
verify step by step,” in Proc. of International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2024.
[25] M. Deng, J. Wang, C.-P. Hsieh, Y. Wang, H. Guo, T. Shu,
M. Song, E. Xing, and Z. Hu, “RLPrompt: Optimizing discrete
text prompts with reinforcement learning,” in Proc. of the Empir-
ical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2022, pp. 3369–
3391.
[26] M. Rohmatillah and J.-T. Chien, “Taming NLU noise: Student-
teacher learning for robust dialogue policy,” in Proc. of IEEE Spo-
ken Language Technology Workshop, 2024, pp. 849–856.
[27] J.-T. Chien and Y.-C. Wu, “Empathetic response generation via
regularized Q-learning,” in Proc. of Asia Pacific Signal and Infor-
mation Processing Association Annual Summit and Conference,
2024, pp. 1–6.
[28] M. Rohmatillah and J.-T. Chien, “Revise the NLU: A prompting
strategy for robust dialogue system,” in Proc. of IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing,
2024, pp. 10 956–10 960.
[29] J. Schulman, F. Wolski, P. Dhariwal, A. Radford, and O. Klimov,
“Proximal policy optimization algorithms,” 2017.
[30] J.-T. Chien, M. Rohmatillah, and C.-T. Chu, “Strategic optimiza-
tion for worst-case augmentation and classification,” IEEE Trans-
actions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing, vol. 33, pp.
111–123, 2025.
[31] R. Zhang, J. Han, C. Liu, A. Zhou, P. Lu, Y. Qiao, H. Li, and
P. Gao, “LLaMA-adapter: Efficient fine-tuning of large language
models with zero-initialized attention,” in Proc. of International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2024.
[32] I. Stelmakh, Y. Luan, B. Dhingra, and M.-W. Chang, “ASQA:
Factoid questions meet long-form answers,” in Proc. of the Em-
pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2022.
[33] J. Wei, X. Wang, D. Schuurmans, M. Bosma, F. Xia, E. Chi, Q. V.
Le, D. Zhou et al., “Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reason-
ing in large language models,” Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, vol. 35, pp. 24 824–24 837, 2022.
[34] Y. Fu, H. Peng, A. Sabharwal, P. Clark, and T. Khot, “Complexity-
based prompting for multi-step reasoning,” in Proc. of Interna-
tional Conference on Learning Representations, 2023.
[35] C.-Y. Lin, “ROUGE: A package for automatic evaluation of sum-
maries,” in Text Summarization Branches Out, 2004, pp. 74–81.
3268

