warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Neural Spectral Band Generation for Audio Coding
Woongjib Choi1, Byeong Hyeon Kim1, Hyungseob Lim1, Inseon Jang2, Hong-Goo Kang1
1Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Yonsei University, Seoul, South Korea
2Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute, Daejeon, South Korea
{woongzip1, bhkim98, hyungseob.lim}@dsp.yonsei.ac.kr,
jinsn@etri.re.kr, hgkang@yonsei.ac.kr
Abstract
Spectral band replication (SBR) enables bit-efficient coding
by generating high-frequency bands from the low-frequency
ones. However, it only utilizes coarse spectral features upon a
subband-wise signal replication, limiting adaptability to diverse
acoustic signals. In this paper, we explore the efficacy of a deep
neural network (DNN)-based generative approach for coding
the high-frequency bands, which we call neural spectral band
generation (n-SBG). Specifically, we propose a DNN-based
encoder-decoder structure to extract and quantize the side infor-
mation related to the high-frequency components and generate
the components given both the side information and the decoded
core-band signals. The whole coding pipeline is optimized with
generative adversarial criteria to enable the generation of per-
ceptually plausible sound. From experiments using AAC as the
core codec, we show that the proposed method achieves a better
perceptual quality than HE-AAC-v1 with much less side infor-
mation.
Index Terms: audio coding, spectral band replication, genera-
tive adversarial training
1. Introduction
The primary objective of audio coding (or audio compression)
is to reduce the amount of data needed to represent audio signals
while preserving the quality of the decoded output [1, 2]. Au-
dio coding schemes can be classified as either lossless or lossy.
Lossless coding preserves the original signal exactly, whereas
lossy coding achieves higher compression by permitting some
quality loss.
In particular, perceptual audio coding [2, 3], a
form of lossy compression, aims to maximize the data efficiency
while maintaining perceived audio quality as much as possi-
ble. These methods exploit psychoacoustics [4]—studies on
the relationship between acoustic stimuli and human auditory
perception—to determine the optimal bit allocation over fre-
quency bins under a bit-budget restriction. By employing psy-
choacoustic models (PAMs) to assess the perceptual saliency of
audio components, perceptual audio codecs assign fewer bits to
less perceptually significant components, thereby achieving a
higher compression ratio without noticeably degrading quality.
At low bit-rates, many perceptual audio codecs [5,6] opt to
totally discard some spectral components above a certain fre-
quency, prioritizing the encoding of lower-frequency content.
While this strategy efficiently reduces bit-rate requirements, the
resulting bandwidth limitation can lead to muffled sound qual-
ity [7, Chapter 5]. To address these issues, many perceptual
This work was supported by Electronics and Telecommunications
Research Institute (ETRI) grant funded by the Korean government.
[25ZC1100, The research of the basic media·contents technologies]
Figure 1: An overview of neural Spectral Band Generation (n-
SBG). The SBG encoder extracts quantized parameters from the
input audio, while the SBG decoder generates high-frequency
subbands based on the transmitted parameters and coded low-
frequency bands. The core decoder and embedding extractor
modules are shared across the encoder and decoder sides, while
the core encoder and core decoder remain fixed and not trained.
codecs such as HE-AAC [8], MP3Pro [9] and Opus [10] in-
corporate spectral band replication (SBR) [11] (or a similar
method), a technique designed to perceptually encode the high-
frequency components using the existing core-band signals in
an efficient manner. In the encoding stage, the input audio sig-
nal is analyzed by a filterbank and the key encoding parameters
such as spectral envelope information and noise level estimates
are extracted by a SBR encoder to be used for reconstructing
the high-frequency components from the low-frequency ones.
These parameters are then quantized and transmitted to the de-
coder. In the decoding stage, the core codec output is separated
into subband signals, and a SBR decoder reconstructs high-
frequency components by replicating low-frequency subband
signals into the high-frequency range. The replicated subband
signals are then adjusted based on the transmitted parameters
and further enhanced with sinusoids or noise if needed.
The SBR is a well-established parametric approach to audio
bandwidth extension (BWE), a task of reconstructing missing
high-frequency components from band-limited signals. Specifi-
cally in the case of SBR, low-frequency band information along
with encoded side information is utilized to generate high-
frequency spectral content. In parallel, numerous DNN-based
BWE [12–15] approaches have emerged, with the aim of gen-
erating missing high-frequency spectra from low-band inputs
(i.e., blind BWE). Building upon these approaches, one may
expect to replace the SBR with a DNN-based BWE model in
the audio coding pipeline. However, this straightforward in-
tegration may be unsuitable for general audio signals, as the
correlation between the low-band and the high-band character-
istics varies depending on the content [16]. Unlike these blind
approaches, where the missing high-frequency content must be
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
624
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1370

inferred without prior information, audio coding has access to
the full-band signal at the encoder [7, Chapter 5]. This funda-
mental difference allows for the extraction of extra information
that guides high-frequency reconstruction more accurately.
Inspired by SBR, we propose neural Spectral Band Gen-
eration (n-SBG) as a new framework to integrate DNN-based
BWE models into traditional audio coding pipelines for more
efficient high-frequency restoration.
Figure 1 provides an
overview of the proposed n-SBG framework. During encoding,
a feature map is extracted and quantized from the original full-
band audio, then transmitted as SBG parameters. The decoder
utilizes these parameters together with the core codec’s band-
limited output to generate the desired high-frequency bands.
The key contributions of this research can be summarized as
follows:
• We propose a novel framework for parametric coding of high-
frequency bands at low bit-rate conditions, replacing the rule-
based SBR with a DNN-based encoder-decoder architecture.
• Our work lays the foundation for a new paradigm in high-
frequency coding by leveraging information from core codec
outputs for more efficient feature extraction and accurate re-
construction.
2. Related Works
2.1. Bandwidth Extension
DNN-based blind BWE approaches typically use generative
models such as diffusion models [12,13] or generative adversar-
ial networks (GAN) [14,15] to estimate high-frequency content
from low-frequency inputs, based on distributions learned from
full-band audio data. These methods have been found to be
particularly effective for speech signals [15], as high-frequency
patterns in speech are more predictable than those in music and
general audio, but their performance for general audio has not
yet been fully validated.
2.2. Neural Audio Codecs
Neural audio codecs (NACs) compress signals through an
encoder-quantizer-decoder pipeline, often incorporating resid-
ual vector quantization (RVQ) to discretize latent embeddings
from the encoder.
Representative examples such as Sound-
Stream [17], EnCodec [18], and DAC [19] employ convolu-
tional autoencoders to process time-domain audio signals. To
further improve perceptual quality, these methods often incor-
porate adversarial training with frequency-domain discrimina-
tors. Recently, a blind BWE module was integrated into a NAC
to reduce bit-rate [20], primarily focusing on speech signals. To
generalize across diverse audio signals, our approach transmits
additional parameters for high-frequency generation through a
dedicated encoder module.
2.3. Post-Processing with Auxiliary Information
While many works aim to enhance degraded codec outputs
solely based on the decoded signal itself [21–23], some post-
processing modules incorporate features obtained from the in-
put signal before encoding to improve the performance of the
enhancement. For instance, [24] and [25] extract quantized fea-
tures from the frequency-domain representation of the input sig-
nal using convolutional networks, which are then provided for
the enhancement. However, these methods primarily focus on
speech signals with low sampling rates.
3. Proposed Method
The proposed method consists of two main components—SBG
encoder and decoder—as shown in Figure 2.
The SBG en-
coder extracts SBG parameters (lying in an embedding space)
from the STFT coefficients of the input audio, while the SBG
decoder generates high-frequency subband signals for Pseudo-
Quadrature Mirror Filters (PQMF) [26] based on the transmit-
ted SBG parameters and the decoded low-frequency subband
signals from the core-codec. Additionally, the output embed-
dings from the bottleneck of the SBG decoder are provided to
the SBG encoder as a conditional input, making the extraction
of side information dependent on the coded core bands. Com-
pared to SBR, our method replaces the rule-based parameter
extraction and synthesis pipeline with a fully neural-network-
based approach, optimized in an end-to-end manner. The de-
tails of each processing module are explained in the following
subsections.
3.1. SBG encoder
The SBG encoder is designed with an architecture similar to
ResNet-18 [27]. The input audio signal x ∈RT ′ is transformed
into a log-power spectrogram xstft ∈R1×F ×T , where T ′, T,
and F indicates the length of the input audio signal, the number
of frames, and the number of frequency bins, respectively. Only
the frequency bins corresponding to the range generated by the
SBG decoder are provided to the feature encoder. The selected
spectral coefficients, represented as ˆxstft ∈R1×F ′×T , are then
processed by the feature encoder.
The feature encoder (shown in Figure 2.a) consists of an
initial 2D-convolution with a kernel size of (7, 7), stride fac-
tor of (2, 1) and an output channel size of D/8, followed by
max pooling layer with a kernel size of (3, 3) and stride factor
of (2, 1), and four Residual Stages. Each Residual Stage con-
tains 3 × 3 convolutions and ReLU activations. The last three
stages progressively double the input channel size and halve
the frequency resolution. The feature encoder then produces
an output embedding z ∈RD×(F ′/Sf )×T , where Sf = 32.
All convolutional layers in the feature encoder are causal. The
extracted feature embedding z is linearly projected into an Sf-
dimensional space, and then reshaped into z′ ∈RF ′×T .
Following the quantization scheme of DAC [19], we use
RVQ to quantize z′ into SBG parameter ˆz.
The RVQ con-
sists of Nq layers of vector quantization (VQ), each with an
N-dimensional codebook containing M learnable code vectors,
where N < F ′. The bit-rate of the SBG parameter is calculated
as fs
H · Nq · ⌈log2 M⌉(bps), where fs denotes the sampling rate
and H is the hop length of the STFT.
3.2. SBG decoder
As shown in Figure 2.b, the SBG decoder receives two in-
puts:
(1) the coded core-band signal xcore, which is de-
composed into critically-sampled subbands (b(core)
1
, . . . , b(core)
Ncore )
and (2) the SBG parameters ˆz from the SBG encoder.
Us-
ing these, the SBG decoder generates high-frequency bands
(b(gen)
Ncore+1, . . . , b(gen)
Ncore+NHF), which are subsequently combined
with the subbands of the coded core-bands and synthesized into
the bandwidth-extended output ˆx. We use 32-channel PQMF
filterbanks for the subband analysis and synthesis.
We adopt SEANet [14, 28], a time-domain speech BWE
model, as the backbone for the SBG decoder and extend its ar-
chitecture to process multi-channel input and output. Specif-
ically, the SBG decoder begins with an initial 1D-convolution
625

Figure 2: Detailed descriptions of the encoder and the decoder architecture: (a) SBG encoder architecture with details of the feature
encoder and the projection layer, (b) SBG decoder architecture.
layer that expand the channel size from Ncore to C. Next, the
feature maps pass through four Encoder Blocks (i.e., Embed-
ding Extractor), which downsample along the temporal axis
and double the channel size. Following the Encoder Blocks,
the signal reaches the bottleneck stage, which consists of two
1D-convolution layers. The first layer reduces the channel size
from 16C into 4C, and the second layer expands it back to
16C. Then, four Decoder Blocks (i.e., Band Generator) suc-
cessively invert the process of the Encoder Block. An addition-
based skip connection links each corresponding encoder and de-
coder block. Finally, the last 1D-convolution outputs NHF chan-
nels corresponding to the high-frequency subbands to be recon-
structed. We set the stride factors of the downsampling layers
to (1, 2, 2, 2). Given that the PQMF analysis process already
downsamples the input signal by a factor of 32, the downsam-
pling layers further reduces the time resolution by an additional
factor of 23 = 8, resulting in an overall reduction up to 256. All
convolution layers within the SBG decoder are causal, ensur-
ing real-time processing that remains consistent with the causal
structure of the SBG encoder.
3.3. Conditioning scheme
The n-SBG leverages two complementary forms of condition-
ing. First, the SBG decoder extracts latent embeddings h ∈
R4C×(T ′/256) from its bottleneck and feeds it to the four Resid-
ual Stages of the SBG encoder. This makes the extraction of
SBG parameters dependent on the coded core band, resulting in
more efficient usage of the bit-rate. Second, the SBG parameter
ˆz ∈RSf ×(T ′/H) is provided to the last bottleneck layer and
the four Decoder Blocks of the SBG decoder, facilitating more
accurate reconstruction of high-frequency bands.
We utilize Temporal Feature-wise Linear Modulation
(TFiLM) [29] to modulate the activation of a specific layer at
each timestep, conditioning it based on a conditional input. Let
a ∈RCa×...×Ta be the activation to be modulated, where Ca
is the channel size and Ta is the number of timesteps. We ex-
tract two parameters β, γ ∈RCa×Ta from a conditional input
b ∈RCb×Tb. If Tb > Ta, we use a strided convolution; oth-
erwise, we replicate each timestep of b to align the temporal
resolution with a. The resampled tensor bre ∈RCb×Ta is then
mapped to the shape (Ca, Ta) through a point-wise linear pro-
jection. Finally, each timestep of the activation a is modulated
as follows:
a(mod)
t
= γ′
t · at + β′
t,
for 0 ≤t < Ta,
(1)
where at, a(mod)
t
∈RCa×···×1, and βt, γt ∈RCa×1 are re-
shaped into β′
t ∈RCa×···×1 and γ′
t ∈RCa.
4. Experiments
4.1. Training Objectives
We apply a GAN framework [17–19] to train the n-SBG, treat-
ing the entire framework as a generator. The training objective
of the generator (Ltotal
G
) is composed of a weighted sum of var-
ious loss functions:
Ltotal
G
= λmelLmel + λadvLadv
G
+ λfmLfm
+ λcbLcb + λcmLcm,
(2)
where the weighting coefficients are set as λmel = 15, λadv
G
=
3, λfm = 6, λcb = 1, and λcm = 0.5. The multi-scale mel-
reconstruction loss, Lmel, is computed across seven different
frequency resolutions [19] and is defined as follows:
Lmel =
7
X
i=1
∥log10 Mi(x) −log10 Mi(ˆx) ∥1,
(3)
where Mi(·) represents the mel-spectrogram at scale i, com-
puted using a window length of 24+i, a hop size of 22+i, and
5 × 2i mel bins. For adversarial training, we use the hinge loss
(Ladv
G ) [30] and the feature matching loss (Lfm). Additionally,
we use two auxiliary losses to train the RVQ: the codebook loss
(Lcb) and the commitment loss (Lcm) [31]. We employ multi-
band STFT-based discriminators [19] and multi-period discrim-
inators [32] to enable high-fidelity reconstruction. These dis-
criminators are trained using a hinge loss (Ladv
D ) with a weight-
ing factor of λadv
D
= 1.
All training objective functions are calculated between the
output signal ˆx and the target signal xtgt, where xtgt is synthe-
sized from (b(core)
1
, . . . , b(core)
Ncore , b(input)
Ncore+1, . . . , b(input)
Ncore+NHF) via a
PQMF synthesis filterbank.
4.2. Dataset and Experimental Setup
For training,
we utilize three datasets:
FSD-50K [33],
MUSDB18-HQ [34], and VCTK [35]. These datasets provide
approximately 70 hours of diverse sound events, 30 hours of
music, and 30 hours of speech content, respectively. For eval-
uation, we used 43 candidate test items for USAC standardiza-
tion [36], consisting of 11 for speech, 18 for music, and 14 for
mixed signals, respectively. All datasets have a sampling rate of
48 kHz.
In the experiment, we compare n-SBG with Fraunhofer
FDK HE-AAC v11, where both share the same core codec.
We used HE-AAC v1 at 12 and 16 kbps bitrate settings. The
1https://tsrac.ffmpeg.org/wiki/Encode/AAC
626

Figure 3: Rate-distortion curves comparing FDK HE-AAC v1 and the proposed model, both generated using the AAC core output at
the same side information bitrate. Distortion measure: (a) NMR ↓(b) 2f-model MMS ↑(c) ViSQOL MOS ↑
Figure 4: A/B preference test results comparing n-SBG with
HE-AAC v1 under different core bit-rate conditions: (a) AAC-
LC @9.4 kbps (b) AAC-LC @13.0 kbps. Values in the parenthe-
ses indicate the bit-rate of side information.
split of the subbands (Ncore, NHF) for the n-SBG follows the
configuration of HE-AAC v1, using (5, 10) and (5, 11) at 12
and 16 kbps respectively. The n-SBG encoder outputs a 512-
dimensional vector per STFT frame, with both window length
and hop length set to 2048, i.e., (D, H) = (512, 2048). RVQ
of n-SBG encoder has a maximum bit-rate similar to that of the
SBR in HE-AAC v1. Each codebook contains 1024 number of
8-dimensional code vectors, where Nq = 11, 13 for 12 and 16
kbps setups, respectively. For inference, the bit-rate of the SBG
parameters can be adjusted by bypassing the last few VQ layers.
The n-SBG decoder has a channel size of C = 64. We trained
n-SBG using the Adam optimizer with an initial learning rate
of 1.0 × 10−4, (β1, β2) = (0.5, 0.9), and exponential learning
rate decay with γ = 0.999996 for both the generator and the
discriminators.
4.3. Experimental Results
We evaluate the performance of the proposed method using
NMR [37], 2f-model MMS [38], and ViSQOL MOS (audio
mode) [39] as objective metrics.
Figure 3 shows the rate-
distortion curves based on the bit-rate of the side information.
We compare n-SBG and HE-AAC v1 at various bit-rates for
the side information, both utilizing AAC-LC at either 13.0 kbps
or 9.4 kbps as a core codec. For reference signals, full-band
signals were low-pass filtered to match the bandwidth specifi-
cations of HE-AAC v1. When consuming similar bit-rates for
the side information, the n-SBG consistently outperforms the
HE-AAC v1 across all objective metrics. With respect to 2f-
model MMS, n-SBG maintains comparable performance to the
HE-AAC v1 while utilizing approximately half the bit-rate for
the side information.
Figure 4 illustrates the results of an A/B preference test con-
ducted with 14 participants, using randomly selected 9 audio
samples (3 speech, 3 music, and 3 mixed) from the test set. The
listening test follows the same experimental setup as the objec-
Table 1: Objective scores comparing Blind SBG and n-SBG
NMR ↓
2f-model ↑
ViSQOL ↑
Core: AAC-LC @ 9.4 kbps
-1.74
28.34
2.52
+ Blind SBG
3.78
32.15
3.38
+ n-SBG (+2.57 kbps)
-2.80
46.04
4.38
Core: AAC-LC @13.0 kbps
-2.05
33.00
2.38
+ Blind SBG
1.51
37.47
3.34
+ n-SBG (+3.04 kbps)
-3.54
55.83
4.44
tive evaluation. Results show that n-SBG achieves higher pref-
erence scores compared to HE-AAC v1, even when the n-SBG
allocates about half the bit-rates for the side information. Fur-
thermore, the preference for n-SBG over SBR becomes more
dominant as the bit-rate of the core codec decreases, indicating
the effectiveness of n-SBG in low bit-rate conditions.
4.4. Ablation Study and Discussion
In Table 1, we compare the objective evaluation results of the
core codec output, the n-SBG output, and the output from n-
SBG without side information, referred to as Blind SBG. The
Blind SBG significantly underperforms n-SBG and shows even
worse NMR than the core codec output, indicating severe audi-
ble noise is introduced. These results highlight the necessity of
side information for generating high-frequency components of
complex audio signals.
Despite the overall performance of n-SBG surpassing SBR,
its effectiveness varies depending on the characteristics of au-
dio signals. n-SBG generates more realistic and vibrant tran-
sient components than the SBR but often struggles with gen-
erating tonal components with prominent harmonic structures.
For future research, we will explore more effective conditioning
strategies and high-frequency generation methods while also
aiming to develop a system adaptive to various core codecs with
different bit-rates.
5. Conclusion
In this work, we propose neural Spectral Band Generation
(n-SBG), an alternative approach to rule-based Spectral Band
Replication (SBR). The proposed method reconstructs high-
frequency components by encoding and transmitting paramet-
ric information, which the SBG decoder efficiently utilizes for
generation. Experimental results demonstrate that the n-SBG
significantly outperforms the SBR at comparable bit-rates, with
particularly notable efficiency gains observed in low bit-rate
scenarios. However, n-SBG struggles with generating complex
tonal components and requires training separate models for dif-
ferent bit-rates. Developing a unified system adaptive to various
core codecs and bit-rates should be investigated in future works.
627

6. References
[1] M. Bosi and R. E. Goldberg, Introduction to digital audio coding
and standards.
Springer Science & Business Media, 2002.
[2] T. Painter and A. Spanias, “Perceptual coding of digital audio,”
Proceedings of the IEEE, vol. 88, no. 4, pp. 451–515, 2000.
[3] J. D. Johnston, “Estimation of perceptual entropy using noise
masking criteria,” in IEEE International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 1988, pp.
2524–2527.
[4] H. Fastl and E. Zwicker, Psychoacoustics: facts and models.
Springer Science & Business Media, 2006, vol. 22.
[5] Information technology — Coding of moving pictures and asso-
ciated audio for digital storage media at up to about 1,5 Mbit/s,
Part 3: Audio, ISO/IEC 11172-3, 1993.
[6] M. Bosi, K. Brandenburg, S. Quackenbush, L. Fielder, K. Aka-
giri, H. Fuchs, and M. Dietz, “ISO/IEC MPEG-2 advanced audio
coding,” Journal of the Audio engineering society, vol. 45, no. 10,
pp. 789–814, 1997.
[7] E. Larsen and R. M. Aarts, Audio bandwidth extension: appli-
cation of psychoacoustics, signal processing and loudspeaker de-
sign.
John Wiley & Sons, 2005.
[8] Information technology — Coding of Audio-Visual Objects — Part
3: Audio, ISO/IEC 14496-3, 2005.
[9] T. Ziegler, A. Ehret, P. Ekstrand, and M. Lutzky, “Enhancing mp3
with SBR: Features and capabilities of the new mp3PRO algo-
rithm,” in Audio Engineering Society Convention 112.
Audio
Engineering Society, 2002.
[10] J.-M. Valin, G. Maxwell, T. B. Terriberry, and K. Vos, “High-
quality, low-delay music coding in the opus codec,” in Audio En-
gineering Society Convention 135.
Audio Engineering Society,
2013.
[11] M. Dietz, L. Liljeryd, K. Kjorling, and O. Kunz, “Spectral band
replication, a novel approach in audio coding,” in Audio Engineer-
ing Society Convention 112.
Audio Engineering Society, 2002.
[12] S. Han and J. Lee, “Nu-wave 2: A general neural audio upsam-
pling model for various sampling rates,” in Proc. Interspeech,
2022, pp. 4401–4405.
[13] H. Liu, K. Chen, Q. Tian, W. Wang, and M. D. Plumbley, “Au-
dioSR: Versatile audio super-resolution at scale,” in IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP).
IEEE, 2024, pp. 1076–1080.
[14] Y. Li, M. Tagliasacchi, O. Rybakov, V. Ungureanu, and D. Rob-
lek, “Real-time speech frequency bandwidth extension,” in IEEE
International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Pro-
cessing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2021, pp. 691–695.
[15] Y.-X. Lu, Y. Ai, H.-P. Du, and Z.-H. Ling, “Towards high-quality
and efficient speech bandwidth extension with parallel amplitude
and phase prediction,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech,
and Language Processing, vol. 33, pp. 236–250, 2025.
[16] P. Ekstrand et al., “Bandwidth extension of audio signals by spec-
tral band replication,” in Proc. 1st IEEE Benelux Workshop on
Model based Processing and Coding of Audio (MPCA-2002),
vol. 6, 2002.
[17] N.
Zeghidour,
A.
Luebs,
A.
Omran,
J.
Skoglund,
and
M. Tagliasacchi, “Soundstream:
An end-to-end neural audio
codec,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Lan-
guage Processing, vol. 30, pp. 495–507, 2021.
[18] A. D´efossez, J. Copet, G. Synnaeve, and Y. Adi, “High fidelity
neural audio compression,” Transactions on Machine Learning
Research, 2023.
[19] R. Kumar, P. Seetharaman, A. Luebs, I. Kumar, and K. Kumar,
“High-fidelity audio compression with improved RVQGAN,” Ad-
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 36, 2024.
[20] Y. Ai, Y.-X. Lu, X.-H. Jiang, Z.-Y. Sheng, R.-C. Zheng, and Z.-H.
Ling, “A low-bitrate neural audio codec framework with band-
width reduction and recovery for high-sampling-rate waveforms,”
in Proc. Interspeech, 2024, pp. 1765–1769.
[21] A. Biswas and D. Jia, “Audio codec enhancement with genera-
tive adversarial networks,” in IEEE International Conference on
Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2020, pp.
356–360.
[22] J. Deng, B. Schuller, F. Eyben, D. Schuller, Z. Zhang, H. Fran-
cois, and E. Oh, “Exploiting time-frequency patterns with LSTM-
RNNs for low-bitrate audio restoration,” Neural Computing and
Applications, vol. 32, no. 4, pp. 1095–1107, 2020.
[23] K. Gupta, S. Korse, B. Edler, and G. Fuchs, “A DNN based post-
filter to enhance the quality of coded speech in MDCT domain,” in
IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2022, pp. 836–840.
[24] S. Hwang, Y. Cheon, S. Han, I. Jang, and J. W. Shin, “Enhance-
ment of coded speech using neural network-based side informa-
tion,” IEEE Access, vol. 9, pp. 121 532–121 540, 2021.
[25] J. Lin, K. Kalgaonkar, Q. He, and X. Lei, “Speech enhancement
for low bit rate speech codec,” in IEEE International Conference
on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE,
2022, pp. 7777–7781.
[26] H. J. Nussbaumer and M. Vetterli, “Pseudo quadrature mirror fil-
ters,” in Proceedings International Conference on Digital Signal
Processing, 1984.
[27] K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun, “Deep residual learning
for image recognition,” in Proceedings of the IEEE conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition, 2016, pp. 770–778.
[28] M. Tagliasacchi, Y. Li, K. Misiunas, and D. Roblek, “Seanet: A
multi-modal speech enhancement network,” in Proc. Interspeech,
2020, pp. 1126–1130.
[29] S. Birnbaum, V. Kuleshov, Z. Enam, P. W. W. Koh, and S. Ermon,
“Temporal FiLM: Capturing long-range sequence dependencies
with feature-wise modulations.” Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, vol. 32, 2019.
[30] J. H. Lim and J. C. Ye, “Geometric gan,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1705.02894, 2017.
[31] A. Van Den Oord, O. Vinyals et al., “Neural discrete representa-
tion learning,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Sys-
tems, vol. 30, 2017.
[32] J. Kong, J. Kim, and J. Bae, “HiFi-GAN: Generative adversar-
ial networks for efficient and high fidelity speech synthesis,” Ad-
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 33, pp.
17 022–17 033, 2020.
[33] E. Fonseca, X. Favory, J. Pons, F. Font, and X. Serra, “FSD50k: an
open dataset of human-labeled sound events,” IEEE/ACM Trans-
actions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, vol. 30, pp.
829–852, 2021.
[34] Z. Rafii, A. Liutkus, F.-R. St¨oter, S. I. Mimilakis, and R. Bittner,
“The MUSDB18 corpus for music separation,” 2017.
[35] C. Veaux, J. Yamagishi, K. MacDonald et al., “CSTR VCTK
corpus: English multi-speaker corpus for CSTR voice cloning
toolkit,” University of Edinburgh. The Centre for Speech Tech-
nology Research (CSTR), vol. 6, p. 15, 2017.
[36] M. Neuendorf, P. Gournay, M. Multrus, J. Lecomte, B. Bessette,
R. Geiger, S. Bayer, G. Fuchs, J. Hilpert, N. Rettelbach et al.,
“Unified speech and audio coding scheme for high quality at low
bitrates,” in IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech
and Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2009, pp. 1–4.
[37] K. Brandenburg and T. Sporer, “‘NMR’ and ‘Masking Flag’:
Evaluation of quality using perceptual criteria,” in Audio engi-
neering society conference: 11th international conference: test
& measurement.
Audio Engineering Society, 1992.
[38] T. Kastner and J. Herre, “An efficient model for estimating sub-
jective quality of separated audio source signals,” in 2019 IEEE
Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and
Acoustics (WASPAA).
IEEE, 2019, pp. 95–99.
[39] M. Chinen, F. S. Lim, J. Skoglund, N. Gureev, F. O’Gorman, and
A. Hines, “ViSQOL v3: An open source production ready objec-
tive speech and audio metric,” in 2020 twelfth international con-
ference on quality of multimedia experience (QoMEX).
IEEE,
2020, pp. 1–6.
628

