warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
On-device Streaming Discrete Speech Units
Kwanghee Choi→, Masao Someki→, Emma Strubell, Shinji Watanabe
1Language Technologies Institute, Carnegie Mellon University, USA
{kwanghec,msomeki,estrubel,swatanab}@andrew.cmu.edu
Abstract
Discrete speech units (DSUs) are derived from clustering the
features of self-supervised speech models (S3Ms). DSUs offer
signiﬁcant advantages for on-device streaming speech applica-
tions due to their rich phonetic information, high transmission
efﬁciency, and seamless integration with large language mod-
els. However, conventional DSU-based approaches are imprac-
tical as they require full-length speech input and computation-
ally expensive S3Ms. In this work, we reduce both the attention
window and the model size while preserving the effectiveness
of DSUs. Our results demonstrate that we can reduce ﬂoating-
point operations (FLOPs) by 50% with only a relative increase
of 6.5% in character error rate (CER) on the ML-SUPERB 1h
dataset. These ﬁndings highlight the potential of DSUs for real-
time speech processing in resource-constrained environments.
Index Terms:
discrete speech units, streaming, on-device,
speech recognition
1. Introduction
Self-supervised speech models (S3Ms) have demonstrated re-
markable efﬁcacy in various speech-related tasks, including
automatic speech recognition (ASR), text-to-speech synthesis,
speech translation, speaker identiﬁcation, and emotion recogni-
tion [1–3]. With the advent of S3Ms, many have started to lever-
age their features for tokenizing speech, i.e., producing discrete
speech units (DSUs) [4–10]. DSUs are typically generated by
applying clustering methods such as k-means to S3M features,
with the resulting clusters treated as DSUs.
The characteristics of DSUs are well adapted to on-device
streaming scenarios, offering cheap transmission and easy adap-
tation to existing large language models (LLMs). Unlike high-
dimensional speech features, such as spectral speech features
or S3M features, DSUs offer improved data storage and trans-
mission efﬁciency [4, 10] while maintaining comparable ASR
performance [5]. These advantages make DSUs a promising
medium for speech data transmission. For instance, a 1-second
16kHz audio signal requires 512kbps in raw form. S3M features
(e.g., wav2vec 2.0-large [2]) increase this to 1600kbps. How-
ever, DSUs with 2k clusters reduce this to just 0.6kbps, signiﬁ-
cantly compressing the data by 3-4 orders of magnitude. DSUs
also offer a promising way to extend LLMs to speech modali-
ties [8,9,11]. A practical application involves generating DSUs
on client devices and transmitting them to server-side LLMs for
processing. This may also provide beneﬁts for anonymizing
personally identiﬁable information for privacy concerns [12] as
S3Ms lose speaker information at later layers [13].
*These authors contributed equally.
Figure 1: Pareto tradeoff between ASR performance (WER on
Librispeech, CER on ML-SUPERB 1h) and computational efﬁ-
ciency (TFLOPs per 1 minute input) for various modiﬁcations
on WavLM-large. Results show that we can extract DSUs in a
lightweight way with limited impact on ASR performance.
However, DSUs have yet to be leveraged for streaming on
edge devices due to two major challenges. First, conventional
S3Ms rely on bidirectional Transformer encoder architectures,
with full attention window size to cover the entire input speech,
which is not immediately compatible with the streaming set-
ting. Second, state-of-the-art S3Ms typically require hundreds
of millions of parameters, which can be computationally infea-
sible to execute on edge devices with limited computational ca-
pacity. It poses a problem for on-device streaming, where GPU
memory restricts the total sequence length and prevents real-
time generation of DSUs.
In summary, a model for extracting DSUs must work well
even with a limited window of future frames while being com-
putationally lightweight. Evidence from previous work sug-
gests this should be possible.
For example, prior work has
indicated that S3Ms predominantly encode phonetic informa-
tion, with limited syntactic and semantic content [13–16]. Fur-
thermore, studies have shown a strong correlation between ex-
tracted DSUs and phonemes [2,17]. These ﬁndings indicate that
DSUs can be extracted with a smaller window size. Regarding
the model size, we hypothesize that we can reduce the number
of required parameters by solely targeting the speciﬁc input dis-
tribution, similar to the ideas of previous work [18,19]. Typical
S3Ms are self-supervised on diverse data to perform well on a
wide variety of audio, i.e., “universal audio feature.” However,
in practice, DSUs would still be useful even if tailored for spe-
ciﬁc target data and tasks.
In this work, we investigate the feasibility of DSUs for
streaming on edge devices by exploring the following two key
questions: 1.
How much temporal window size is needed?
(Section 3); 2.
How much model capacity (parameters) is
needed? (Section 4). We investigate tradeoffs between com-
putational efﬁciency and downstream performance in this set-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
4423
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-975

ting by varying the attention window size and the number of
layers of WavLM-large [3], a representative S3M for extracting
DSUs [6]. For each setting, a smaller model is trained by re-
garding the full model’s DSUs as ground truth. We evaluate fea-
sibility by measuring the computational cost, comparing with
ASR performance on Librispeech [20] and ML-SUPERB [21].
Our contributions in this paper are summarized as follows:
• To the best of our knowledge, this study is the ﬁrst to ex-
plore DSUs in the on-device streaming setting, exploring the
feasibility of real-time lightweight computation of DSUs.
• We explore the trade-off between downstream performance
and computational overhead by varying the attention window
size and the number of layers of the original S3M, obtaining
Pareto optimal trade-off curve.
• By optimizing the model’s attention window size and number
of layers, we reduce FLOPs by 50% while having only a 6%
relative increase in CER on the ML-SUPERB 1h dataset.
2. Experimental Settings
Our work investigates whether DSUs can be accurately pre-
dicted using a smaller model. To evaluate the predicted DSUs,
we focus on the discrete ASR system. We use the same experi-
mental settings across all experiments.
2.1. Discrete ASR System
Discrete ASR system contains two main modules: speech-to-
unit (S2U) module and unit-to-text (U2T) module. S2U mod-
ule generates DSUs, i.e., speech discretization from continuous
S3M features. Given the input raw speech x →Rt with length
t, fS3M transforms speech into S3M features:
S = fS3M(x) →RT →F ,
(1)
where F is the feature dimension and T is the temporal dimen-
sion roughly proportional to t. Then, the pretrained k-means al-
gorithm is applied to yield the stream of DSUs D = fkmeans(S).
The cascade of S3M and k-means becomes the S2U module:
fS2U(x) = fkmeans(fS3M(x)) = D = [D1, D2, · · · , DT ], (2)
where Di →{1, 2, · · · , V } is the DSU at timestep i and V is
the vocabulary size, i.e., k in k-means.
After generating DSUs from speech through the S2U mod-
ule (eq. (2)), U2T module translates DSUs to text transcriptions.
To reduce the sequence length, additional post-processing meth-
ods are often applied, such as deduplication or byte-pair encod-
ing tokenization [5,6]:
D↑= fsubword(D) = [D↑
1, D↑
2, · · · , D↑
T →],
(3)
where D↑
j →{1, 2, · · · , V ↑} is the post-processed DSU at
timestep j. Often, the sequence length T ↑becomes shorter and
vocabulary size V ↑becomes larger, i.e., T ↑↑T, and V ↑↓V .
Finally, the discrete ASR model fASR is trained to predict
the transcription y. The cascade of post-processing methods
(eq. (3)) and discrete ASR model becomes the U2T module:
fU2T(D) = fASR(fsubword(D)) = fASR(D↑) = ˆy,
(4)
where ˆy is the prediction of y.
In summary, transcription y is predicted from input speech
x through the cascade of S2U (eq. (2)) and U2T (eq. (4)):
ˆy = fU2T(fS2U(x)) = fASR(fsubword(fkmeans(fS3M(x)))),
(5)
where the DSUs D = fkmeans(fS3M(x)) becomes the communi-
cation medium between the two modules. Often, both modules
are not trained in an end-to-end manner, but separately trained.
2.2. Training a DSU predictor
Our aim is to train a lightweight DSU predictor ¯fS2U that pre-
dicts the DSUs D given the speech input x, so that it can replace
fS2U within the discrete ASR system. To make ¯fS2U to be train-
able in an end-to-end manner, we replace the k-means model d
with a trainable fully-connected layer (FC):
fFC(fS3M(x)) = [ ˆD1, ˆD2, · · · , ˆDT ],
(6)
where ˆDi →RV is the pre-softmax logits at timestep i. The
ﬁnal predicted DSU becomes ˆDi = argmaxv ˆ
Di[v], such that:
¯fS2U(x) = argmaxvfFC(fS3M(x)) = [ ˆD1, ˆD2, · · · , ˆDT ], (7)
with a slight abuse of notation for the argmax operator. In sum-
mary, we use the original DSUs D as the ground truth label for
the lightweight DSU predictor ¯fS2U, so that we can replace the
original S2U module fS2U within the discrete ASR system.
2.3. System Evaluation
We use the existing discrete ASR system challenge [6], which
uses frozen WavLM-Large [3] 21st layers’ features to extract
DSUs. The challenge uses two datasets: LibriSpeech [20] and
ML-SUPERB 1-hour subset [21], which covers English and 143
languages, respectively. We denote the clean and noisy subset
of LibriSpeech as test-clean and test-other, and ML-SUPERB
test set as test-1h. To measure the downstream performance,
we use word error rate (WER) for test-clean and test-other,
and character error rate (CER) for test-1h, following [5]. Also,
we use tera (1012) ﬂoating point operations (TFLOPs) per one
minute of input audio to measure the computational cost of the
S2U module (eqs. (2) and (7)). It differs from the original chal-
lenge, which uses bitrate to focus on the transmission efﬁciency
of the DSU itself, not the overhead of extracting DSUs. We use
calﬂops [22] to calculate FLOPs.
2.4. Experimental Details
Following [6], we use the 12-layer E-branchformer encoder [23]
and 6-layer Transformer decoder [24] for the discrete ASR
model fASR (eq. (4)). However, for computational efﬁciency,
we reduce the beam size from 20 to 5. For all of our experi-
ments, we used the AdamW optimizer [25] with learning rate
1e-4 and weight decay 1e-6. We used the step learning rate de-
cay with a rate of 0.9 every 1K steps. We use the variable batch
size with 2M frames for 10 epochs, setting patience to 1. Refer
to our codebase for more details.1
3. Reducing the Attention Window Size
Why does window size matter? S3Ms leverage Transformers
with the full attention window, which requires the full audio to
produce discrete units, making the streaming scenario impossi-
ble. However, this issue can be mitigated by limiting the future
window size of the S2U module. The smaller the required fu-
ture frames, the smaller the theoretical delay of the system for
streaming scenarios. Additionally, reducing the input size en-
ables lower computational overhead.
1https://github.com/Masao-Someki/StreamingDSU
4424

Figure 2: Results on various attention window sizes when ex-
tracting DSUs. Baseline uses the full speech input, where others
use sparse attention with symmetric and asymmetric windows.
Experimental settings. We aim to answer whether the en-
tire input is required or if we can yield similar downstream
performance with limited attention window size.
We regard
the case where we input the full speech as the strong base-
line (eq. (2)). We test various window sizes by varying the
number of past and future frames. Motivated by the codebase
of WavLM [3], we use a streaming mask, i.e., time-restricted
self-attention [26, 27], to limit the window size. We fully ﬁne-
tune the DSU predictor ¯fS2U (eq. (7)) while using the same U2T
module fU2T (eq. (4)) as the baseline.
We denote various attention window conﬁgurations as the
number of left, center, and right frames, i.e., [l, c, r]. Given the
number of layers n, the temporal receptive ﬁeld size is (l+r)↔
n + c and the theoretical latency is r ↔n + c.
We always set the center frame as c = 1,and vary the num-
ber of left and right frames, i.e., l and r. We ﬁrst test the sym-
metric windows: l = r = 1, 2, · · · , 64. Additionally, we aim
to measure the usefulness of the past or future frames. As such,
we compare past-only ([l = 1, 2, · · · , 128, c = 1, r = 0]) and
future-only ([l = 0, c = 1, r = 1, 2, · · · , 128]) windows.
Results. The results in Figure 2 align with expectations,
showing that performance improves as the attention window
size increases.
However, the magnitude of improvement di-
minishes with progressively larger window sizes. It suggests
that DSUs capture contextual information from surrounding
frames [15]. Additionally, even with the same window size,
models that consider only past or future frames perform sig-
niﬁcantly worse than those that incorporate both. In the case
of test-clean, future frames contribute slightly more to perfor-
mance than past frames, whereas test-other and test-1h show lit-
tle to no difference, supporting the effectiveness of a symmetric
window approach. The results suggest there is little distinction
between using past and future information. Further, we explore
additional techniques to improve performance in Section 5.
4. Reducing the Number of Layers
Why does the number of layers matter? Existing S3Ms typ-
ically consist of a large number of layers. Since the number of
layers has a linear relationship with computational cost, reduc-
ing them beneﬁts resource-constrained on-device applications.
Also, through this experiment, we aim to estimate the
amount of compute required to achieve a certain downstream
performance. As it is empirically known that neighboring layers
tend to contain similar amounts of information [13–15], ﬁne-
tuning S3Ms while removing the ﬁnal layer one by one is the
most straightforward approach.
DSU Frozen
DSU FT
fS3M
Input
Speech x
S3M
Features S
fFC
DSUs D
[1,17,3,1]
fU2T
Output
Text ŷ
HELLO
fS3M
fFC
[1,17,3,1]
fU2T
HELLO
DSU Full FT
fS3M
fFC
[1,17,3,1]
fU2T
HELLO
DSU Baseline
SSL Frozen
SSL FT
fS3M
fkmeans
[1,17,3,1]
fU2T
HELLO
fS3M
fF2T
HELLO
fS3M
fF2T
HELLO
Figure 3: Various baselines for Section 4 and Figure 4.
Figure 4: Results using features from various layers when ex-
tracting DSUs. Each methods are summarized in Figure 3.
Experimental settings. To answer the question, we de-
signed a simple experimental setting of reducing Transformer
layers one by one and extracting DSUs from them. For fS3M
(eq. (1)), we use layers up to layer index 21, 18, · · · , 3, 0, where
0 means using only convolutional features. For the DSU predic-
tor fS2U (eq. (7)), we compare the case where we only ﬁne-tune
the FC layer fFC (DSU Frozen) and also ﬁne-tuning the S3M
layers fS3M (DSU FT). We use the frozen U2T module fU2T
from the challenge baseline. We additionally compare the case
where we also ﬁne-tune the U2T module fU2T (DSU Full FT).
We compare with three baselines, where it is summarized in
Figure 3: (1) the original challenge baseline (eq. (2), DSU Base-
line); (2) using the frozen S3M features directly (SSL Frozen);
and (3) also ﬁne-tuning the S3M features (SSL FT). SSL Frozen
is the strong baseline for DSU Frozen, which contains the full
information inside the frozen n-th layer features.
Similarly,
SSL FT is the strong baseline for DSU FT, which demonstrates
the case when we fully utilize the available model weights.
For SSL FT and SSL Frozen, we follow the settings of [5],
which slightly modiﬁes the U2T module fU2T. We feed S3M
features to the linear layer and feed through the Transformer di-
rectly. We denote the module fF2T, i.e., feature-to-text module.
We use the same training settings as Section 3 except for the
learning rate scheduler for SSL Frozen and SSL FT; a warmup
of 15k was empirically necessary for convergence.
Results. Similar to Section 3, an expected trend is observed
in Figure 4: reducing the number of layers leads to performance
degradation and ﬁne-tuning more modules leads to better per-
formance. In the lowest layers, SSL features generally perform
well, suggesting that relevant information is present but largely
lost during the DSU prediction. Nonetheless, DSU-based meth-
ods remain generally on par with SSL approaches. In particular,
SSL Frozen and SSL FT tend to overﬁt more easily to the ma-
jority language (test-clean and test-other), resulting in degraded
performance on other languages (test-1h).
4425

Figure 5: Results with varying symmetric attention window
sizes (Sym.), with applying additional methods, i.e., learnable
weights (WF) and ﬁne-tuning U2T module (U2T FT). Baseline
uses the full speech input, while Full Past uses full past, but lim-
ited future attention window.
5. Towards the Pareto Optimal
We test various methods to improve downstream performance.
Also, by applying such, we produce a Pareto optimal curve
that represents the trade-off between the computational over-
head and the downstream performance.
Learnable weights for multi-layer features (WF).
As
demonstrated in [13,14], different layers encode different types
of information. To leverage this, prior work [3,21,28] has em-
ployed a learnable weighted summation of features across lay-
ers, removing the need to search for the optimal layer. Moti-
vated by this approach, we apply the same technique to extract
S3M features for DSU prediction.
Fine-tuning unit-to-text module (U2T FT). We hypothe-
size that DSU predictors with smaller window (eq. (7)) will pro-
duce noisier DSU predictions, where the U2T module (eq. (4))
has not been exposed to during training. To address this, we
ﬁne-tune the U2T module to enhance its robustness against such
noise, resulting in better performance in downstream tasks.
Experimental settings. For WF, we use the exact same
training settings as before. For U2T FT, we use the same set-
tings except for the variable batch size of 20K and patience 3.
We choose two baselines: (1) the original challenge baseline;
(2) limiting only the future window size r, i.e., [l = ↗, c =
1, r = 1, 2, · · · , 64] (Full Past). We show all methods’ fu-
ture attention window size for extracting DSUs. The theoret-
ical latency, which is proportional to the future window size,
is often used in streaming scenarios [29]. Note that symmetric
windows’ computational cost scale linearly with speech length,
whereas both baselines scale quadratically.
Results. Figure 5 demonstrates that Full Past outperforms
Symmetric for smaller windows. However, the difference di-
minishes beyond 0.5s window size, suggesting a ﬁxed past win-
dow with an adjustable future window for latency needs. For
WF, it reduces the largest windows’ performance drop from
57% and 83% to 18% and 40% in test-clean and test-other.
However, it shows limited improvement on ML-SUPERB. On
the other hand, U2T FT is effective, especially for smaller win-
dows across all datasets, supporting the above hypothesis that
ﬁne-tuning may learn noise in smaller window predictions.
Pareto optimal curve.
By integrating all ﬁndings and
techniques, we construct the Pareto optimal curve in Figure 1.
We use symmetric windows of varying sizes (l
=
r
=
1, 2, · · · , 64, c = 1) while varying the number of layers (12,
15, 18, 21). We also apply learnable weights and test both with
and without U2T ﬁne-tuning.
Our Pareto curve is shown in Figure 1, demonstrating that
one can extract DSUs in a lightweight streaming way with rea-
sonable trade-off on ASR performance. Especially with 0.96
TFLOPs, we achieve 6.3 WER (test-clean), 14.0 WER (test-
other), and 24.4 CER (test-1h), close to the baseline perfor-
mance of 5.0 WER, 9.2 WER, and 23.0 CER.
6. Related Works
Making S3Ms lightweight. Knowledge distillation (KD) is of-
ten used to reduce the size of S3Ms, such as DistilHuBERT
[30] or FitHuBERT [31]. Techniques like pruning [18, 19] and
quantization [32] is also used. These approaches, evaluated on
general benchmarks [21], primarily aim to create generally us-
able S3Ms with lower computational cost, often maintaining the
non-streamable Transformer architecture. Our work focuses on
efﬁcient streaming DSUs, ﬁne-tuning the model for a speciﬁc
task and data, rather than yielding general-purpose features.
Speech tokenization.
Speech tokenization broadly falls
into acoustic tokens [33–35] or DSUs based on S3Ms [2,3,17].
Acoustic tokenizers are often trained with the Vector Quantised-
Variational AutoEncoder (VQ-VAE) [36]), which emphasizes
real-time, high-ﬁdelity acoustic detail. On the other hand, DSUs
are known to contain rich phonetic information [13–16] and
hence provide structural coherence [7] and better ASR perfor-
mance [5], although often ofﬂine. Rather than relying on VQ-
VAE, our work aims to make DSUs directly streamable and
lightweight, maintaining their rich knowledge while enabling
real-time abilities.
DSUs for KD. [37] uses DSUs to distill S3Ms, but not
speciﬁcally optimizing for predicting DSUs. DSUs have also
been used for KD in voice conversion [38] or to guide acoustic
tokenizers such as Speechtokenizer [39] and Mimi [40]. How-
ever, these approaches either prioritize building general speech
models or introduce complex multi-stage systems. In contrast,
our work directly concentrates on enhancing the efﬁciency of
the DSU themselves, speciﬁcally for on-device streaming cases.
7. Conclusion
DSUs offer advantages for on-device streaming due to their
transmission efﬁciency and compatibility with LLMs. How-
ever, current methods for generating DSUs rely on full speech
input and computationally heavy S3Ms. Therefore, we investi-
gated both the attention window size and the number of layers
in S3Ms. Our experiments demonstrate the feasibility of creat-
ing lightweight and streamable DSUs. Furthermore, we show
that weighted feature summation and ﬁne-tuning the unit-to-
text model effectively improve performance. Finally, we ex-
plored the trade-off between ASR performance and computa-
tional overhead, establishing Pareto optimal curve.
8. Acknowledgements
This study was supported by the BRIDGE program of the Cab-
inet Ofﬁce, Government of Japan. We also used the Bridges2
system at PSC and Delta system at NCSA through allocations
CIS210014 and IRI120008P from the Advanced Cyberinfras-
tructure Coordination Ecosystem: Services & Support (AC-
CESS) program, through National Science Foundation grants
#2138259, #2138286, #2138307, #2137603, and #2138296.
4426

9. References
[1] A. Mohamed, H.-y. Lee, L. Borgholt et al., “Self-supervised
speech representation learning: A review,” IEEE J-STSP, 2022.
[2] A. Baevski, Y. Zhou, A. Mohamed, and M. Auli, “wav2vec 2.0:
A framework for self-supervised learning of speech representa-
tions,” in Proc. NeurIPS, 2020.
[3] S. Chen, C. Wang, Z. Chen et al., “WavLM: Large-scale self-
supervised pre-training for full stack speech processing,” IEEE
J-STSP, 2022.
[4] X. Chang, B. Yan, Y. Fujita et al., “Exploration of efﬁcient end-
to-end asr using discretized input from self-supervised learning,”
in Proc. Interspeech, 2023.
[5] X. Chang, B. Yan, K. Choi et al., “Exploring speech recognition,
translation, and understanding with discrete speech units: A com-
parative study,” in Proc. ICASSP, 2024.
[6] X. Chang, J. Shi, J. Tian et al., “The Interspeech 2024 Challenge
on Speech Processing Using Discrete Units,” in Proc. Interspeech,
2024.
[7] Z. Borsos, R. Marinier, D. Vincent et al., “AudioLM: a language
modeling approach to audio generation,” IEEE/ACM TASLP,
2023.
[8] D. Zhang, S. Li, X. Zhang et al., “SpeechGPT: Empowering large
language models with intrinsic cross-modal conversational abili-
ties,” in Proc. EMNLP, 2023.
[9] P. K. Rubenstein, C. Asawaroengchai, D. D. Nguyen et al., “Au-
dioPaLM: A large language model that can speak and listen,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.12925, 2023.
[10] T. Nakamura, K. Choi, K. Hojo et al., “Discrete speech unit ex-
traction via independent component analysis,” in Proc. ICASSP
Workshop on Speech and Audio Language Models (SALMA),
2024.
[11] J. Zhan, J. Dai, J. Ye et al., “AnyGPT: Uniﬁed multimodal LLM
with discrete sequence modeling,” in Proc. ACL, 2024.
[12] A. Hernandez,
P. A. Perez-Toro,
T. Arias-Vergara et al.,
“Anonymizing dysarthric speech:
Investigating the effects of
voice conversion on pathological information preservation,” in
Intl. Conf. on Text, Speech, and Dialogue.
Springer, 2024.
[13] K. Choi, A. Pasad, T. Nakamura et al., “Self-supervised speech
representations are more phonetic than semantic,” in Proc. Inter-
speech, 2024.
[14] A. Pasad, B. Shi, and K. Livescu, “Comparative layer-wise analy-
sis of self-supervised speech models,” in Proc. ICASSP, 2023.
[15] K. Choi, E. Yeo, K. Chang et al., “Leveraging Allophony in Self-
Supervised Speech Models for Atypical Pronunciation Assess-
ment,” in Proc. NAACL, 2025.
[16] K. Choi, J.-w. Jung, and S. Watanabe, “Understanding probe be-
haviors through variational bounds of mutual information,” in
Proc. ICASSP, 2024.
[17] W.-N. Hsu, B. Bolte, Y.-H. H. Tsai et al., “HuBERT: Self-
supervised speech representation learning by masked prediction
of hidden units,” IEEE/ACM TASLP, 2021.
[18] C.-I. J. Lai, Y. Zhang, A. H. Liu et al., “PARP: Prune, adjust and
re-prune for self-supervised speech recognition,” Proc. NeurIPS,
2021.
[19] Y. Peng, K. Kim, F. Wu et al., “Structured pruning of self-
supervised pre-trained models for speech recognition and under-
standing,” in Proc. ICASSP, 2023.
[20] V. Panayotov, G. Chen, D. Povey, and S. Khudanpur, “Lib-
rispeech: an asr corpus based on public domain audio books,”
in Proc. ICASSP, 2015.
[21] J. Shi, D. Berrebbi, W. Chen et al., “ML-SUPERB: Multilin-
gual Speech Universal PERformance Benchmark,” in Proc. In-
terspeech, 2023.
[22] X. Ye, “calﬂops: a FLOPs and params calculate tool for neu-
ral networks,” https://github.com/MrYxJ/calculate-ﬂops.pytorch,
2023, accessed: 2025-05-20.
[23] K. Kim, F. Wu, Y. Peng et al., “E-branchformer: Branchformer
with enhanced merging for speech recognition,” in Proc. SLT,
2022.
[24] A. Waswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar et al., “Attention is all you
need,” in Proc. NeurIPS, 2017.
[25] I. Loshchilov and F. Hutter, “Decoupled weight decay regulariza-
tion,” in Proc. ICLR, 2019.
[26] D. Povey, H. Hadian, P. Ghahremani et al., “A time-restricted self-
attention layer for asr,” in Proc. ICASSP, 2018.
[27] N. Moritz, T. Hori, and J. Le, “Streaming automatic speech recog-
nition with the transformer model,” in Proc. ICASSP, 2020.
[28] S. wen Yang, P.-H. Chi, Y.-S. Chuang et al., “SUPERB: Speech
Processing Universal PERformance Benchmark,” in Proc. Inter-
speech, 2021.
[29] B. Fu, K. Fan, M. Liao et al., “wav2vec-S: Adapting pre-trained
speech models for streaming,” in Proc. ACL, 2024.
[30] H.-J. Chang, S.-w. Yang, and H.-y. Lee, “DistilHuBERT: Speech
Representation Learning by Layer-wise Distillation of Hidden-
unit BERT,” in Proc. ICASSP, 2022.
[31] Y. Lee, K. Jang, J. Goo et al., “FitHuBERT: Going thinner and
deeper for knowledge distillation of speech self-supervised learn-
ing,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2022.
[32] M. Oujabour, L. B. Letaifa, J.-F. Dollinger, and J.-L. Rouas,
“Adaptive compression of supervised and self-supervised models
for green speech recognition,” in Proc. ICASSP, 2025.
[33] N. Zeghidour, A. Luebs, A. Omran et al., “Soundstream: An end-
to-end neural audio codec,” IEEE/ACM TASLP, 2021.
[34] A. D´efossez, J. Copet, G. Synnaeve, and Y. Adi, “High ﬁdelity
neural audio compression,” TMLR, 2023.
[35] J. Shi, J. Tian, Y. Wu et al., “ESPnet-Codec: Comprehensive train-
ing and evaluation of neural codecs for audio, music, and speech,”
in Proc. SLT, 2024.
[36] A. Van Den Oord, O. Vinyals et al., “Neural discrete representa-
tion learning,” Proc. NeurIPS, vol. 30, 2017.
[37] D. de Oliveira and T. Gerkmann, “Distilling hubert with lstms via
decoupled knowledge distillation,” in Proc. ICASSP, 2024.
[38] H. Kanagawa and Y. Ijima, “Knowledge distillation from self-
supervised representation learning model with discrete speech
units for any-to-any streaming voice conversion,” in Proc. Inter-
speech, 2024.
[39] X. Zhang, D. Zhang, S. Li et al., “Speechtokenizer: Uniﬁed
speech tokenizer for speech language models,” in Proc. ICLR,
2024.
[40] A. D´efossez, L. Mazar´e, M. Orsini et al., “Moshi: a speech-
text foundation model for real-time dialogue,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.00037, 2024.
4427

