warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Tonal variation and word meaning in Taiwanese
Yu-Ying Chuang1, Sheng-Fu Wang2
1Department of Taiwan Culture, Languages, and Literature, National Taiwan Normal University,
Taiwan
2Institute of Linguistics, Academia Sinica, Taiwan
yuying.chuang@ntnu.edu.tw, sftwang@gate.sinica.edu.tw
Abstract
Tone sandhi is extensive in Taiwanese, where all but the
final syllable in a morphosyntactically defined unit undergo
sandhi. Previous studies have primarily focused on comparing
sandhi tonal realizations to their corresponding citation ones to
determine whether neutralization occurs. However, such a high-
level comparison overlooks the variability in how tones are ac-
tually realized. This study aims to examine tonal variation in
Taiwanese, focusing on whether word meaning influences tonal
realization. Using spontaneous speech data, we analyzed the
realizations of the high-falling tone. Our findings indicate that
word meaning does contribute to tonal variability. Moreover,
when meaning-induced tonal variation is accounted for, no re-
maining differences between sandhi and citation tones can be
observed. These results suggest that tonal realizations system-
atically vary with word meaning and that the effect of meaning
on tonal realizations should be considered when discussing neu-
tralization.
Index Terms: tonal variation, word meaning, tone sandhi, tonal
neutralization, Taiwanese
1. Introduction
Taiwanese, also commonly known as Taiwan Southern Min, is
the second widely spoken language in Taiwan, after Mandarin.
Similar to Mandarin, Taiwanese is also a tone language, but
its tonal inventory is richer and the tone sandhi system is more
complex. The dominant dialect of Taiwanese is often described
to have seven lexical tones, including five long (smooth) tones
and two short (checked) tones. The distinction between long
and short tone is based on syllable structure, with the short tones
restricted to syllables with stop codas. The sandhi system in
Taiwanese, regardless of dialects, is continuous. That is, sandhi
applies to every non-final syllable. Thus, a syllable’s citation
tone only occurs at boundaries of units that are mostly mor-
phosyntactically defined, and all the other syllables should be
realized with sandhi tones. For example, the words to21 ‘pour’
and tsui51 ‘water’ have a low-falling and a high-following un-
derlying tone respectively. When they are put together to form
the phrase of ‘pouring water’, the first word undergoes sandhi
and is realized as a high-falling tone, while the second word, if
occurring before a boundary, is still realized as a high-falling
tone. That is, despite the same high-falling tone, the former
realizes its sandhi tone, whereas the latter its citation tone.
The realization of sandhi tone has attracted a lot of atten-
tion. Traditionally, it has been considered that the sandhi re-
alization (e.g., low-falling realized as high-falling) is indistin-
guishable from the realization of the corresponding citation tone
(e.g., high-falling realized as high-falling). In other words, the
sandhi process involves categorical tonal alternation [1, 2], lead-
ing to tonal neutralization. More recent studies, however, sug-
gest the contrary. Particularly with spontaneous speech data,
it was found that sandhi and citation tonal realizations are not
identical [3, 4]. This indicates that the two tonal realizations
are incompletely neutralized. Furthermore, it was even shown
that perceptually listeners are able to tell the difference between
sandhi and citation realizations at above-chance level [5, 3].
As considerable discussion has been devoted to the issue of
tonal neutralization, so far little attention has been given to the
actual variability present in tonal realizations. That is, compar-
isons between sandhi and citation realizations to a large extent
remain at a broad level, and to the best of our knowledge, no
study has directly addressed the variation involved in sandhi
and citation tonal realizations. In fact, it is well established,
at least for Mandarin, that tonal realizations vary substantially
in connected speech, and may even lose their tonal shapes de-
noted by the canonical tonal descriptions [6, 7]. Furthermore,
various factors, such as coarticulation, syllable structure, into-
nation, prosodic prominence, and emotion, can all affect how
lexical tones are realized, contributing to tonal variation [8].
The goal of this study is to investigate tonal variation in
sandhi and citation tonal realizations in Taiwanese.
Specifi-
cally, we are interested in whether tonal variation is to some
extent lexically determined. That is, does word meaning, along
with other known factors, co-determine tonal realizations in Tai-
wanese? This research question arises from a growing body
of research showing that fine-grained phonetic realizations vary
with word meaning. For example, [9] reported that English het-
erographic homophones such as time and thyme differ consis-
tently in duration. Moreover, different senses of the same word
(e.g., like used as a verb or a discourse particle) also have dis-
tinct phonetic realizations [10]. At the sublexical level, [11]
found that the English /s/ suffix is produced with varying du-
rations depending on its morphological functions (e.g., plural,
third-person singular). Given the intimate relationship between
what a word means and how it is realized phonetically, follow-
ing this line of research, in this study we hypothesize that dif-
ferent words, homophoneous or not, should also differ in their
tonal realizations.
To address this issue, we make use of the Taiwan Southern
Min spontaneous speech corpus [12]. In this study, we focus on
monosyllabic words whose surface realization is a high-falling
tone, which has the most evenly distributed tokens across var-
ious conditions in our data. The high-falling realization can
be either sandhi or citation tone: the former is the sandhi real-
ization of words whose underlying tone is low-falling, whereas
the latter is the citation realization of words whose underly-
ing tone is already high-falling. As sandhi and citation realiza-
tions are usually found to be incompletely neutralized in spon-
taneous speech, for the current analyses we also expect to find
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
4183
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1325

non-identical realizations for sandhi and citation realizations.
However, given that no previous studies have considered the ef-
fect of word meaning, it remains unknown whether incomplete
neutralization can still be observed after meaning-induced tonal
variation is taken into account.
As variation usually manifests in fine-grained phonetic de-
tails, in this study, instead of only using measures gauged tonal
realizations at a grand level such as pitch height or range, our
analyses are conducted on the entire pitch contours. Specifi-
cally, we analyze tonal contours by using the Generalized Ad-
ditive Model [13, GAM]. As pitch varies with time, by predict-
ing pitch from time, the smooth functions in GAM then are able
to capture the undulations of pitch for the entire word. Further
application of GAM to tone or pitch analyses, see for example
[14] and [15].
2. Methods
2.1. Data
The Taiwan Southern Min corpus [12] includes recordings of 16
Taiwanese native speakers, each contributing approximately 30
minutes of interview speech. The speakers (half self-identified
as female, and half as male) were between 20 and 60 years old
at the time of recording. In total there are of 3,792 word types
of 88,619 word tokens. About 42.6% of the words are mono-
syllabic words, among which 5,540 tokens are realized as high-
falling tone. To ensure that each word type has sufficient tokens,
we first removed word types with fewer than 20 tokens. This
left us with a dataset of 4,294 tokens of 41 words. Twenty of
the 41 words (1,423 tokens) are citation tone realizations, and
21 words (2,871 tokens) are sandhi tone realizations. That is,
about half of the words have a high-falling tone as their under-
lying tone, while the other half undergo sandhi, changing from a
low-falling tone to a high-falling tone. For each token, we then
extracted the entire tonal contour by measuring F0 values at 21
equidistant normalized time points. This was done by making
use of the ProsodyPro software [16], with the range of F0 esti-
mation set to between 50 and 400 Hz.
2.2. Analyses
As a first step, we fitted a baseline model. Since the F0 distri-
bution is positively skewed, we log-transformed the F0 values
to approximate normality. To model the entire contour, we fit-
ted a GAM to log-transformed F0s, with normalized time as
the main predictor. We further included a by-smooth of sex to
request a separate predicted contour for each sex. However, in-
cluding this by-smooth did not result in model fit improvement,
suggesting that male and female speakers realize high-falling
tone similarly in terms of contour shape. We therefore removed
the by-smooth for sex from our model, and only considered the
intercept difference between males and females. A by-speaker
factor smooth was included to take into account any potential
speaker idiosyncrasy in realizing high-falling tone. We also en-
tered a number of controlling variables into the baseline model,
including token duration, adjacent tone, and syllable structure,
as all of them have been previously identified to affect tonal
realizations. In addition, given the effect of prosody on tonal
realizations [17], for each token we also labeled whether it oc-
curs at a prosodic boundary, i.e., whether it is the last word of
an intonational phrase, following the criteria of the ToBI an-
notation system of Taiwanese [18]. It should be noticed that
although utterance boundaries tend to coincide with prosodic
boundaries, this is not necessarily so in spontaneous speech.
Table 1: The number of word tokens and word types (in paren-
thesis) for citation and sandhi realizations that occur at pre-
boundary and prosodic boundary positions.
pre-boundary
boundary
citation
1,002 (20)
421 (20)
sandhi
2,436 (21)
435 (21)
Table 1 presents the distribution of sandhi and citation tokens,
cross-tabulated by their occurrence at the prosodic boundary.
As expected, there are fewer citation than sandhi realizations
at pre-boundary positions. There are, however, slightly more
sandhi than citation realizations that occur at prosodic bound-
aries. These sandhi tokens primarily come from disfluencies
and hesitation.
To examine whether citation and sandhi tones are neutral-
ized, we then added the variable type (citation vs. sandhi) to
the baseline model described above. If model fit, estimated by
AIC [19], significantly improves with the addition of type, it
then suggests that tonal realizations differ for sandhi and cita-
tion tones, thus indicating incomplete neutralization. On the
contrary, if it does not lead to model fit improvement, this sug-
gests that being informed about the source of tone type does
not contribute to accounting for additional variance in the data,
and it is therefore more likely that sandhi and citation tones are
completely neutralized.
Finally, we investigated whether word meaning contributes
to tonal variation, and if so, whether the effect of the word
meaning is capable of explaining away the effect of type. For
this set of analysis, we worked with a smaller dataset that con-
tains only tokens that occur at pre-boundary positions. This
is because the number of pre-boundary tokens outnumbered
that of boundary ones substantially (cf. Table 1), unsurpris-
ingly. Moreover, not all word types occur at prosodic bound-
aries. About a quarter of the word types have fewer than five
boundary tokens, and one word never occurs at boundaries.
Considering the effect of prosodic boundary, we therefore re-
stricted the analysis of word meaning to pre-boundary tokens.
We again first built a baseline model similar to the one described
above with the smaller dataset, except that this time the variable
boundary was not included. We then added a by-word factor
smooth to the baseline model, requesting a predicted contour for
each word type. Similar to the previous analyses, if this leads to
model fit improvement, this suggests that word meaning, along
with other known factors, also affect tonal realizations.
3. Results
In what follows, we first present results of citation and sandhi
realizations, focusing on whether the two are completely or in-
completely neutralized. Subsequently we show how tonal real-
izations differ by word, and finally, we discuss the realizations
of three homophone pairs in the current data.
3.1. Citation and sandhi realizations
All the control variables in the baseline model significantly in-
fluence how tones are realized, consistent with the findings of
previous studies on tonal variation. When the model is fur-
ther informed about tone type (i.e., the type variable, citation
vs. sandhi), model fit improves by 238 AIC units, suggest-
ing that compared to the baseline model, the type model is
4.7978e + 51 times more likely to be the generating model for
4184

pre−bounary
boundary
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
−0.10
−0.05
0.00
0.05
normalized time
log F0 (partial effect)
type
citation
sandhi
Figure 1: The predicted tonal contour (partial effect) for the
citation and sandhi realizations that precede (left) and occur at
(right) prosodic boundaries.
the current data. The predicted falling tone contours for citation
and sandhi realizations at pre-boundary and boundary positions
are shown in Figure 1. As can be seen, prosodic boundary has
a strong effect on tonal realizations. The pre-boundary realiza-
tions start with a short period of level or rising, which is then
followed by a fall. The boundary ones, on the other hand, gen-
erally have a shallower fall, and are accompanied by a small
rise in the end. Importantly, tone type interacts with prosodic
boundary. In pre-boundary positions, citation and sandhi real-
izations are more similar, but not identical. At prosodic bound-
aries, the difference is more pronounced, with sandhi realiza-
tions both higher and flatter than citation realizations. More-
over, the final rise is more prominent in citation realizations.
This pattern of finding supports incomplete neutralization. On
top of that, it further demonstrates how citation and sandhi real-
izations differ is subject to prosodic boundary.
3.2. By-word tonal variation
To investigate the effect of word meaning, we used a smaller
dataset with only pre-boundary tokens, for reasons discussed
previously in Section 2.2. We first fitted a baseline model with
the same model structure as the previous analyses with the full
dataset. All control variables fitted to this smaller dataset again
also show significant effects. Crucially, by adding the by-word
factor smooth to the baseline model, we observed substantial
improvement of model fit, with a decrease of 980 AIC units.
This suggests that word is a powerful predictor, which is ca-
pable of accounting for a large portion of variance in the data.
Figure 2 visualizes the predicted tonal contours of a random se-
lection of 12 words. Half of them are citation realizations (red),
and the other half are sandhi realizations (green). While the
falling contour seems to be present in all words, the detailed re-
alizations however differ. The fall, for example, is rather muted
in the words be ‘buy’ (panel [1, 1]) and mai ‘do not’ (panel
[2, 4]). While the rising portion at the beginning is slow and
extends for a longer period of time for sui ‘pretty’ (panel [1,
2]), it is however quick and short in kio ‘call’ (panel [2, 3])
and tiam ‘o‘clock’ (panel [3, 1]). It can thus be seen that every
word seems to have its own unique tonal realizations. Notably,
although tonal realizations differ in a by-word fashion, there
does not seem to be systematic differences between citation and
sandhi tones.
tiam 'o'clock'
kin 'hurry'
khuann 'look'
pian 'change'
tsau 'run'
ho 'good'
kio 'call'
mai 'do not'
be 'buy'
sui 'pretty'
khi 'go'
tua 'live'
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.000.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.000.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.000.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
−0.2
−0.1
0.0
0.1
−0.2
−0.1
0.0
0.1
−0.2
−0.1
0.0
0.1
normalized time
log F0 (partial effect)
Figure 2: The predicted tonal contours for a sample of 12 words.
The red and green lines indicate that the word is realized with
citation and sandhi tone respectively.
To further delve into this issue, we fitted another model by
adding the variable type to the baseline model. Compared
to the baseline model, the type model was slightly better, as
model fit improved by 5.45 AIC units. The extent of improve-
ment, however, is by far smaller than that of the word model
described above. Moreover, to investigate whether we can find
any citation-sandhi difference beyond word-specific variation,
we added type to the word model. Interestingly, model fit
did not improve further. This suggests that once by-word tonal
variation is taken into account, the information of tone type is no
longer required. In other words, the small improvement that we
observed for the type model might have resulted from some
random similarities shared by words within the citation and the
sandhi group. However, once by-word tonal variation is con-
trolled for, no further differences between citation and sandhi
tones can be observed.
3.3. Homophones
The analyses so far have confirmed the contribution of word
in accounting for tonal variation. It however remains unknown
whether the effect of word truly comes from word meaning.
That is, given that different words also differ in various other as-
pects, it is possible that the effect of word results from not word
meaning per se, but other factors such as segmental makeup and
frequency of occurrence that also differ by word. To zoom in
on the effect of word meaning, we thus went on to consider the
tonal realizations of homophones.
In the current dataset, there are three homophone pairs: si,
meaning either ‘die’ or ‘four’, sng, meaning ‘play’ and ‘com-
pute’, and kai, meaning ‘correct’ and ‘exceed’. They are all
heterographic homophones, and thus are represented by differ-
ent characters. The first meaning of each pair all belong to
the citation group, and the second meaning all belong to the
sandhi group. Figure 3 presents the predicted contours of these
homophones obtained from the word model. It can be seen
4185

−0.1
0.0
0.1
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
normalized time
log F0 (partial effect)
si 'die'
si 'four'
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
normalized time
sng 'play'
sng 'compute'
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
normalized time
kai 'correct'
kai 'exceed'
Figure 3: The predicted tonal contours of three heterographic
homophone pairs. The red and green lines plot the contours of
the citation and sandhi words respectively.
that homophones’ tonal realizations share more similarities than
non-homophones, as presented in Figure 2. Nonetheless, even
though homophones have exactly the same segmental makeup,
their tonal contours still exhibit subtle distinction. For si, the
meaning of the sandhi word (‘four’) seems to have a higher
pitch register than that of the citation word (‘die’). The same
holds for sng, as the contour of the sandhi word (‘compute’) is
above that of the citation word (‘play’). The trend, however, is
reversed for kai. Pitch register tends to be lower for the sandhi
word than the citation word, although the difference is not as
prominent. This pattern of results therefore illustrates that word
meaning, among other differences encompassed in words, have
a non-negligible effect on tonal realizations.
4. Discussion
This study investigated the variation in high-falling tone real-
izations in Taiwanese spontaneous speech. When comparing its
sandhi and citation realizations, we found that the two are not
identical. This finding is much in line with [3] and [4], who also
reported incomplete neutralization for sandhi and citation real-
izations. In addition to that, our results further showed an inter-
action between neutralization and prosody. That is, how sandhi
and citation tones differ is depending on prosodic positions. In
general, the sandhi-citation difference is enlarged at prosodic
boundaries than at pre-boundary positions. One possible expla-
nation is that different boundary tone could have also influenced
the realizations of sandhi and citation tones. Although it is not
yet clear how intonation pattern affects tonal realizations in Tai-
wanese [18], the discrepancy found in the present study is likely
to have resulted form other prosody-related factors.
The novel finding of this study is the effect of word mean-
ing on tonal realizations. When the model has access to the
word identity of the tokens, it is able to predict tonal contours
with higher precision. This suggests that tonal realizations vary
across words, and that every word has its own specific tonal
contour. To make sure that the effect of word pertains to its
meaning, we further examined the tonal realizations of homo-
phones. It was found that homophone pairs, despite having the
same segmental makeup, still differ in the fine-grained details of
their tonal realizations. The current finding fits well with previ-
ous studies that demonstrate the intricate relationship between
word meaning and phonetic realizations [9, 10, 20]. However, it
seems that the difference in tonal realization seems to be more
subtle than other phonetic differences reported in previous ho-
mophone studies. We suspect that this is possibly due to the
coarse meaning distinction in this study. As mentioned above,
all homophones in this study are heterographic. However, char-
acters are admittedly a poor representation of word meaning, as
the majority of Taiwanese characters have more than one mean-
ings (or senses). Take kai ‘correct’ (citation realization, Figure
3) for example. In addition to the meaning of correcting, ac-
cording to the Dictionary of Frequently-Used Taiwanese [21], it
has four other different senses, including ‘quitting’, ‘changing’,
‘repenting’, and ‘times [classifier]’. Similarly for the sandhi
counterpart of kai, in addition to the verb meaning of ‘exceed-
ing’, its other senses include ‘extremely’, ‘spreading’, ‘talking
nonsense’, and ‘covering’.
Given the considerable diversity
of meaning associated with both words, we might have sim-
ply compared two tonal contours, each averaged across a wide
variety of different meanings. It is therefore likely that the true
meaning-specific tonal difference has been masked by the grand
average contours. Nevertheless, despite the imprecision of our
current meaning distinction, the current results still demonstrate
the potential of word meaning to account for tonal variation.
More fine-grained annotations that distinguish different senses
of the same word are required for future studies.
If word meaning does contribute to tonal variation, what
does it tell us about incomplete neutralization, given that the
comparison of sandhi and citation realizations inevitably in-
volve different words? In this study we found that although
tone type (citation vs. sandhi) can explain some variance in the
data when the model is agnostic for word identity, it however
did not improve model fit any further when word information
was already in the model, at least for pre-boundary tokens. This
suggests that the sandhi-citation distinction is no longer neces-
sary once meaning-induced tonal variation is taken into account.
In other words, word is a substantially more powerful predictor
than tone type, and the finding of incomplete neutralization in
previous studies could have resulted from overlooking the effect
of word meaning on tonal realizations.
If incomplete neutralization can be reduced to the word ef-
fect, this might have suggested that sandhi and citation tones
are actually fully neutralized, as any difference between them
can be attributed to by-word tonal variation. This is indeed
one possibility. However, we are cautious about drawing this
conclusion, because so far we do not have a good definition
for ‘word meaning’. For example, is the meaning of apple the
same in compounds like apple tree, apple pie, and apple juice?
How about sentences like I ate the apple and The apple was
eaten, where the connotations might differ slightly depending
sentence structure? Should contextual meaning as such be con-
sidered as part of word meaning? We do not have an answer to
these questions yet. It thus remains an empirical question how
much tonal variation can be accounted for by word meaning if
we take “meaning” really seriously. The strong version of the
hypothesis could be: given that words’ positional change in an
utterance also lead to changes in their contextual meaning, even
tone sandhi, alternation of tonal categories, might be accounted
for by meaning variation resulted from positional change. If this
turns out to be the case, it then suggests that the system of tone
sandhi might not be needed at all, as word meaning is sufficient
to predict how tone should be realized in different utterance po-
sitions. And if there is no tone sandhi, neutralization will no
longer be an issue either. Since answering these questions un-
doubtedly requires more data and in-depth analyses, we leave
the exploration of these interesting issues to future studies.
4186

5. Acknowledgements
This research was supported by the National Science and Tech-
nology Council, Taiwan (NSTC 114-2410-H-003-007-MY2),
and by the Yushan Fellow Program by the Ministry of Educa-
tion, Taiwan, awarded to the first author.
6. References
[1] J. Myers and J. Tsay, “Neutralization in Taiwan Southern Min
tone sandhi,” Interfaces in Chinese phonology: Festschrift in
honor of Matthew Y. Chen on his 70th Birthday, pp. 47–78, 2008.
[2] Y.-F. Chien and A. Jongman, “Tonal neutralization of Taiwanese
checked and smooth syllables: An acoustic study,” Language and
speech, vol. 62, no. 3, pp. 452–474, 2019.
[3] M.-H. Chen, “Tone sandhi phenomena in Taiwan Southern Min,”
Ph.D. dissertation, University of Pennsylvania, 2018.
[4] Y.-Y. Chuang and S.-F. Wang, “Incomplete neutralization in tone
sandhi in Taiwan Southern Min spontaneous speech,” in Proc.
Speech Prosody 2024, 2024, pp. 537–541.
[5] C.-H. Kuo, “Perception and acoustic correlates of the Taiwanese
tone sandhi group,” Ph.D. dissertation, UCLA, 2013.
[6] C. Shih and G. Kochanski, “Chinese tone modeling with stem-
ML,” in Interspeech, 2000, pp. 67–70.
[7] C. Cheng and Y. Xu, “Mechanism of disyllabic tonal reduction
in Taiwan Mandarin,” Language and speech, vol. 58, no. 3, pp.
281–314, 2015.
[8] Y. Xu, “Sources of tonal variations in connected speech,” Journal
of Chinese Linguistics Monograph Series, pp. 1–31, 2001.
[9] S. Gahl, ““Time” and “thyme” are not homophones: The effect
of lemma frequency on word durations in spontaneous speech,”
Language, pp. 474–496, 2008.
[10] K. K. Drager, “Sociophonetic variation and the lemma,” Journal
of Phonetics, vol. 39, no. 4, pp. 694–707, 2011.
[11] I. Plag, J. Homann, and G. Kunter, “Homophony and morphology:
The acoustics of word-final S in English,” Journal of Linguistics,
vol. 53, no. 1, pp. 181–216, 2017.
[12] S.-F. Wang and J. Fon, “A Taiwan Southern Min spontaneous
speech corpus for discourse prosody,” in The Proceedings
of Tools and Resources for the Analysis of Speech Prosody,
Aix-en-Provence, France, 2013, pp. 20–23. [Online]. Available:
http://www.lpl-aix.fr/∼trasp/Proceedings/20427-trasp2013.pdf
[13] S. N. Wood, Generalized additive models: an introduction with R.
CRC press, 2017.
[14] Y. Sun and C. Shih, “Boundary-conditioned anticipatory tonal
coarticulation in Standard Mandarin,” Journal of Phonetics,
vol. 84, p. 101018, 2021.
[15] C. Zhang, K. Jepson, and Y.-Y. Chuang, “Investigating differences
in lab-quality and remote recording methods with dynamic acous-
tic measures,” Laboratory Phonology, vol. 15, pp. 1–49, 2024.
[16] Y. Xu, “Prosodypro—a tool for large-scale systematic prosody
analysis,” in Proceedings of Tools and Resources for the Analy-
sis of Speech Prosody (TRASP 2013), Aix-en-Provence, France.
7-10.
Laboratoire Parole et Langage, France, 2013.
[17] S.-h. Peng, “Production and perception of Taiwanese tones in dif-
ferent tonal and prosodic contexts,” Journal of Phonetics, vol. 25,
no. 3, pp. 371–400, 1997.
[18] S.-h. Peng and M. E. Beckman, “Annotation conventions and cor-
pus design in the investigation of spontaneous speech prosody in
Taiwanese,” in ISCA & IEEE workshop on spontaneous speech
processing and recognition, 2003.
[19] H. Akaike, “Information theory and an extension of the maxi-
mum likelihood principle,” in Selected papers of Hirotugu Akaike.
Springer, 1998, pp. 199–213.
[20] C. Martinuzzi and J. Schertz, “Sorry, not sorry: The independent
role of multiple phonetic cues in signaling the difference between
two word meanings,” Language and Speech, vol. 65, no. 1, pp.
143–172, 2022.
[21] Dictionary
of
Frequently-Used
Taiwanese.
Ministry
of
Education,
Taiwan,
2025.
[Online].
Available:
https:
//sutian.moe.edu.tw/zh-hant/
4187

