warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Exploring auditory feedback mechanisms in speech recognition
Louise Coppieters de Gibson1,2, Philip N. Garner1
1Idiap Research Institute, Switzerland
2Ecole Polytechnique F´ed´erale de Lausanne, Switzerland
louise.coppieters@idiap.ch, pgarner@idiap.ch
Abstract
For many years, automatic speech recognition (ASR) has been
built on compressed filter-bank features understood to be a
rough model of the cochlea. However, recent understanding,
evidenced by oto-acoustic emissions, is that the cochlea is com-
posed of driven oscillators. The Hopf mechanism arising from
an oscillator model explains the well known cube-root compres-
sion. A bifurcation arises from an inner feedback loop from the
outer to inner hair cells. Further, larger feedback loops exist
along the efferent path of the auditory nerve, particularly from
the olivary complex. The means of combination of these sig-
nals is less well understood. In the present study, to the ex-
tent to which current compute power allows, we investigate
how to incorporate the Hopf mechanism and the olivocochlear
feedback mechanisms into ASR. Results show that adding this
larger feedback loop appears beneficial for ASR. The results
currently have modest implications for ASR, however, perhaps
more importantly, such technology could be used to make infer-
ence about the biological mechanism.
Index Terms: speech recognition, Hopf oscillators, cochlear
model, efferent pathway
1. Introduction
For several years, cochlear models have been a topic of re-
search in both neuroscience and automatic speech recognition
(ASR). Although these fields differ in computational objectives,
they share a common underlying process: transforming human
speech into comprehensible signals, whether they be neural sig-
nals, phonemes, or words. Physiological models first served as
a foundation for ASR technology. However, driven by com-
putational constraints and performance, the ASR field has in-
creasingly focused on filter-based speech features such as Mel-
Frequency Cepstral Coefficients (MFCCs), or more recently
raw speech with end-to-end (E2E) processing [1].
In the physiological field, cochlear models are generally de-
signed to better understand the underlying human mechanism.
Based on these studies, the mathematical modelling that cur-
rently best approaches the intricacies of the cochlea is the Hopf
oscillator model [2, 3]. This model offers a filtering aspect as
well as a damping regime and an active amplification regime.
Moreover, in the auditory pathway from the cochlea to the brain,
several efferent paths have been reported. The best-known is the
olivocochlear feedback mechanism from the olivary complex
(OC) to the cochlea [4, 5]. This mechanism protects against
damage from loud noise, improves speech perception in noisy
environments, and modulates the auditory nerve’s sensitivity.
Hopf oscillators have already been shown to be capable of
performing sound recognition [6]. In this paper we investigate
the incorporation of a Hopf oscillator frontend model and an ef-
Speech
Oto-acoustic
emissions
Tectoral membrane
Inhibition
AGC loop
Active amplification
Signal detection
passive resonance
at specific
frequency
OHC
Variation of
membrane
potential
Fast OHC
contraction
IHC
Action
potential
Nervous
system
Figure 1: Schematic of the working of the cochlea
ferent path in an ASR context. We show that the Hopf oscillator
is capable of generating comprehensive features and moreover,
the efferent path enhances the global ASR performance.
2. Background
2.1. Speech features in ASR
In traditional ASR systems, MFCCs are commonly employed
as feature extraction. MFCCs serve as a simplified representa-
tion of the cochlea’s function. Sample windows of 25ms are ex-
tracted from a raw speech signal (the sampling rate is typically
about 16kHz) at a 100Hz frame rate which constitutes frames.
Those frames are further processed, which involves a logarith-
mic compression of the amplitude to reduce dynamic range and
mel-frequency warping to align with human hearing sensitivity.
By contrast, modern ASR systems often employ raw speech
as input [1], leveraging convolutional neural networks to extract
meaningful features. This shift has resulted in improved perfor-
mance, yet at the cost of reduced interpretability.
2.2. Physiological working of the cochlea
The working of the cochlea was first understood to function as
a passive filterbank [7]. However, some studies indicated that a
passive filter system would not be capable of handling the am-
plitude range of the human ear [8], which implies the need for
an active amplification mechanism to handle low-amplitude sig-
nals. A better understanding of the cochlea has revealed that it
functions as an array of active amplification oscillators. Figure
1 illustrates the inner workings of the cochlea, showing how the
outer hair cells (OHCs) detect small movements of the basilar
membrane and actively amplify them. Conversely, when the
inner hair cells (IHCs) detect these movements, they generate a
neural signal that is further transmitted through the nervous sys-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
4743
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1924

Cochlea
CN
OC
IC
MGB
Auditory
cortex
Olivocochlear feedback
Figure 2: Auditory path from cochlea to midbrain with the ef-
ferent paths from the auditory cortex and mibrain.
tem to the brain. An inhibitory feedback loop to the OHCs regu-
lates their amplification activity. The electromotility capacity of
OHCs is also responsible for generating oto-acoustic emissions
(OAEs). In a silent environment, the OHCs oscillate, produc-
ing vibrations that can propagate backwards through the ear and
generate sound [9, 10, 11].
2.3. Cochlear models
Cochlear models have been developed to capture various as-
pects of the cochlea’s functioning, each focusing on distinct
aspects. These models aim to better understand the complex
interactions within the auditory system, including the relation-
ships between neurons, synapses, and the fluid dynamics of the
basilar membrane. One type of model concentrates on the shape
of the impulse response, such as gamma-tone filters, which ex-
hibit useful capacities for applications like ASR and cochlear
implants [12, 13, 14, 15]. Another type of model focuses on
biochemical transfers in synapses, with neurotransmitter-based
cochlear models ultimately leading to the generation of spikes
[16, 17]. A third type models the basilar membrane and under-
lying fluid dynamics. These models focus on the transmission
of sound vibrations through the perilymph and the tonotopic
distribution of frequencies in the cochlea [18, 19, 20]. A fourth
type are based on the active amplification mechanism inherent
to the OHC-IHC interactions. Notable examples are CARFAC
[21, 22] and the Hopf oscillator mechanism [2, 3].
2.4. The efferent path
Beyond the cochlea, several efferent paths have been reported
to play important roles in modulating auditory perception [23]
(see Figure 2).
One well-studied efferent path is the olivo-
cochlear feedback, which connects from the OC to the cochlea
[4, 5]. This pathway is present in various mammals and has
been favoured by evolutionary selection [24, 25]. However, it’s
not the only efferent path; other descending projections from
the auditory cortex to the cochlear nerve (CN), OC, inferior col-
liculus (IC) and medial geniculated body (MGB) play an impor-
tant role in synapse adaptation. Furthermore, IC, SOC, and CN
are interconnected within a bidirectional network that facilitates
top-down modulation in the auditory pathway.
3. Hopf oscillator formulation
3.1. Mathematical formulation
The cochlea acts an active amplification oscillator. A mathe-
matical formulation can be derived from a harmonic oscillator
describing the stereocilia movements by adding an active force
component fa [26].
m¨x + h ˙x + kx = F + fa
(1)
Where x is the displacement and m, h and k are constants.
However, the mathematical development leading to a Hopf os-
cillator is complex [3]. A simpler approach is to start from the
normal form of the Hopf oscillator in the polar domain [27]:
 ˙r = r(µ −r2)
˙θ = 2πf
(2)
This equation consists of two differential equations: the
phase (θ) is directly dictated by the oscillator frequency (f),
while the radius (r) equation yields a more complex behaviour
that includes a cube root compression and a pitchfork bifurca-
tion tuning through the parameter µ. This bifurcation parameter
(µ) defines the number of solutions of the differential equation
and consequently the bifurcation point.
• When µ < 0, the equation has one stable solution: r = 0.
• When µ > 0, the system has two stable solutions: r = ±√µ
and one unstable solution µ = 0.
• µ = 0 corresponds to the bifurcation point.
The Hopf oscillator model (equation 2) has been adapted
for cochlear applications by incorporating additional features
[28, 29, 3]. Firstly, an external signal parameter (x) is intro-
duced to drive the cochlea by incoming speech signals. Sec-
ondly, a tuning equation for the bifurcation parameter is added
to the model. This equation allows the system to transition from
a damping regime (characteristic of loud sound levels) to an ac-
tive amplification regime (more suitable for quiet situations) [2].
Thirdly, a frequency-scaling factor is applied to the differential
equations. This parameter is proportional to the bandwidth of
each oscillator [30, 31, 32].
In our model, the Hopf oscillator equations are defined
through differential equations and bifurcation parameter µ is
tuned through a feedforward mechanism dependent on the in-
put signal x. These equations are summarized as:





˙r = (µr + βr3 + x cos θ)πfbw
˙θ = 2πfc −x
r πfbw sin θ
µth = µmax

x2
δ2 −1

(3)
Where the different parameters are defined as:
β The first Lyapunov coefficient. It needs to be negative in
order to have a stable solution over the whole domain.
µmax The maximum value fixed for the bifurcation parameter.
δ The bifurcation threshold, defining the limit between the
damping and active amplification mode.
fc, fbw Respectively the central frequencies and bandwidth of
the different oscillators defined based on the mel-scale.
3.2. Characterization
The Hopf module is designed so that a cube root equation gov-
erns the evolution of the oscillator radius as a function of the
input signal amplitude, with the bifurcation parameter fixed at
µ = 0:
r =
3
r
−A
2β
(4)
Since the bifurcation parameter is able to adapt to the incoming
signal, the equilibrium radius curve as a function of the input
signal amplitude will slightly diverge from the initial cube root
expression illustrated in Figure 3. The threshold between the
two regimes happens when:
A =
√
2δ
(5)
For low amplitudes, the bifurcation parameter is above zero,
which actively amplifies the radius and for high amplitudes the
4744

0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
r
Radius of oscillators at equilibrium
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Amplitude of x
−1.0
−0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
μ
Equilibrium value of μ in function of the amplitude of x
Figure 3: Diverging tendencies from the cube root relationship
between the input signal amplitude (A) and the oscillator radius
(r).
Fixed filters
Adaptation freq: 8000 Hz
Adaptation freq: 1000 Hz
Adaptation freq: 100 Hz
Figure 4: Illustration of the fixed filter output and the oscillator
output for different Hopf adaptation frequencies.
bifurcation parameter gets lower which damps down the oscil-
lator radius.
3.3. Computational trade-off of Hopf frequency rate
The system parameters are updated using the Euler step for the
differential equations, while the bifurcation parameter is up-
dated through a proportion-wise combination with its previous
value. To prevent divergence, a tanh function is applied to the
computed bifurcation parameter:



r[t + ∆t, t + 2∆t] = r[t, t + ∆t] + ˙r · ∆t
θ[t + ∆t, t + 2∆t] = (θ[t, t + ∆t] + ˙θ · ∆t)%2π
µ[t + ∆t, t + 2∆t] = pµ + (1 −p) tanh(µth)
(6)
An Euler step update implies using a recurrent implemen-
tation. Note that the Euler updates proceed at sample rate rather
than the more usual frame rate, implying a computational over-
head. Recurrence at sample rate leads to training times mea-
sured in weeks on modest current graphics units. Hence from
the outset we seek to mitigate recurrence frequency. The Hopf
adaptation rate can be lowered to different frequencies, which
results in larger ∆t steps in equation 6 to compute the Hopf
parameters. Reducing the adaptation frequency improves com-
putational efficiency but increases signal distortion. A reason-
able lower bound for preserving speech features is the frame
rate. Figure 4 compares the output of a fixed filter with that of a
Hopf oscillator module
Euler step
r
θ
µ
CNN
MLP
phonemes
waveform x
Figure 5: Integration of Hopf module in a simple ASR baseline.
Hopf oscillator under different adaptation frequencies. We ob-
serve a linear relationship between the Hopf adaptation rate and
the computation time.
Figure 4 compares the fixed filter output with Hopf oscilla-
tor output with different Hopf adaptation frequencies. We note
that there exists a linear relationship between the Hopf adapta-
tion rate and the computation time.
4. Integration into ASR
The primary objective of this paper is to investigate the feasi-
bility of integrating a Hopf oscillator model with an ASR sys-
tem, as well as to evaluate the effectiveness of combining the
efferent pathway feedback capacities with the Hopf oscillator
model. To accomplish this, we utilize WER as a performance
metric, which serves as a robust benchmark for comparing re-
sults across various configurations.
4.1. Learning paradigms
In ASR and other deep learning tasks, parameter optimization is
typically achieved through gradient descent, a method that itera-
tively adjusts model weights to minimize prediction errors. This
process shares similarities with neural adaptation, where synap-
tic strengths and types are shaped by neurotransmitter flow. In
this context, the gradient descent mechanism can be seen as
analogous to how these synaptic adjustments occur in biolog-
ical systems. Unlike traditional gradient-based methods like
gradient descent, the Hopf module uses differential equations
to dynamically adjust parameters in real-time according to the
incoming signal, even during testing.
4.2. Integration of the Hopf module
A first experiment consist of drawing a baseline using the Hopf
oscillator module in an ASR system composed out of a CNN
and an MLP as illustrated in Figure 5. This study leads to two
main hypotheses. Firstly, that Hopf oscillators, more than only
being the best model to capture some cochlear intricacies are
able to generate features that an ASR system can use with a rea-
sonable performance compared to fixed rectangular filters from
SincNet [33]. Second, that the trade-off discussed in section
3.3 also relates to the time-performance trade-off in the ASR
experiment. A lower adaptation rate would then imply a lower
performance but a faster computation.
4.3. Integration of efferent path
The auditory path contains several efferent pathways from
which the olivocochlear feedback is the best known (see sec-
tion 2.4). This path connects the OC to the OHC and IHC. We
propose to model a similar feedback loop by a transposed CNN.
Therefore, we connect this feedback to the output of the Hopf
4745

Hopf oscillator module
Euler step
r
θ
µ
Linear
TCNN
CNN
MLP
phonemes
waveform x
Figure 6: Integration of efferent path in the ASR baseline com-
bined with the Hopf oscillator frontend.
oscillator through a linear module as illustrated on Figure 6. A
second feedback mechanism originates from the auditory cor-
tex and extends to various nuclei along the auditory pathway.
Its primary function is to modulate synapses, allowing for the
adjustment of incoming neural signals. This form of feedback
is already modelled through gradient backpropagation, which
directly influences the weights across different modules.
We hypothesize that incorporating a large feedback loop
into the ASR structure, analogous to the olivocochlear feedback
mechanism, could further improve overall ASR performance.
5. Results
We conducted the different experiments on the TIMIT dataset
[34], utilizing the pytorch-kaldi framework [35]. We use 40 os-
cillators in the Hopf module, distributed over the mel frequency
range [36, 37] and we perform the experiments on several adap-
tation frequencies between the sampling and frame rate. For
the experiments involving a larger feedback loop, the feedback
adaptation frequency is set to 50 Hz. The ASR performance
achieved for the different experiments as well as the fixed filter
baseline are illustrated on Figure 7.
5.1. Hopf oscillator baseline
The baseline results support our hypothesis that Hopf oscilla-
tors produce features that an ASR system can use for phoneme
translation and that shows a comparable performance to fixed
filters. Moreover, our findings indicate a clear trade-off between
performance and efficiency, where lower adaptation frequencies
result in reduced computational time, but at the cost of increased
WER. This trade-off is confirmed by experiments with different
frequency settings, which reveal that:
• A 100 Hz adaptation rate offers similar time efficiency to
fixed filters, but the performance is only around 43% WER.
• With an adaptation frequency between 4 and 16 kHz, the per-
formance of ASR models are similar to the performance ob-
tained with fixed filters. The time per epoch however is mul-
tiplied by a factor between 10 and 50.
5.2. Hopf oscillator with feedback mechanism
The addition of a large feedback loop is, on the one hand, com-
putationally more demanding, but on the other hand, it brings
a performance improvement over all the tested configurations
which demonstrates the hypothesis that a feedback mechanism
would improve the global system performance.
• For Hopf adaptation frequencies below 500Hz, the base-
line implementation provides a better efficiency-performance
trade-off.
• For Hopf adaptation frequencies above 500Hz, the perfor-
10
1
10
2
10
3
Time per epoch [min]
20
25
30
35
40
WER
   Fixed filters
   100Hz
   200Hz
   500Hz
   1kHz
   2kHz
   4kHz
   8kHz
   16kHz
   100Hz
   200Hz
   500Hz 
   1kHz 
   2kHz 
   4kHz 
   8kHz
   16kHz
WER when adding a feedback loop
Fixed filters
Hopf oscillator baseline
Hopf oscillator with feedback mechanism
Figure 7: WER results of the Hopf oscillator for different Hopf
adaptation frequencies for both experiments with and without
adding a large feedback loop.
mance beats this trade-off and above 2kHz, it achieves even
better results than the baseline at 16kHz.
This result indicates that the Hopf mechanism on its own
does provide an output that requires an additional feedback
mechanism, in the same way as the cochlea is better tuned with
the efferent path. Hopf oscillators have the tendency of oscillat-
ing with a given inertia depending on the bifurcation parameter.
This inertia without a proper feedback mechanism could be mis-
interpreted by the ASR system, working on a frame rate basis
without any recurrent knowledge of previous frames.
6. Conclusion
In this paper, we investigate the working of the cochlea as a
Hopf oscillator and evaluate its capacity in an ASR context.
The inner workings of the cochlea are mathematically best rep-
resented by Hopf oscillators, which exhibit cube root compres-
sion and adaptation around the Hopf bifurcation. This bifurca-
tion causes the mechanism to switch from an active amplifica-
tion function to a damping mechanism based on the amplitude
of the input signal. When incorporated into an ASR system,
the module introduces two adaptation mechanisms: one driven
by differential equations to dynamically adjust the parameters
of the Hopf module, and another governed by an autograd sys-
tem to optimize the weights of the ASR’s various components.
Furthermore, we incorporate larger auditory pathway feedback
mechanisms into the ASR system, which mirrors the feedback
process of the auditory brain.
The results from a Hopf integration experiment demon-
strate that Hopf oscillators can produce speech features that can
be processed by an ASR system. A trade-off curve shows that a
high adaptation rate above 4kHz yields equivalent performance
to fixed rectangular filters. The efferent path experiments re-
veal that incorporating this feedback mechanism significantly
improves experimental performance, emphasizing the necessity
to adapt Hopf oscillator outputs.
This outcome suggests that physiologically inspired adap-
tations can enhance the global functionality of physiologically
plausible models. Developing this framework may lead to fur-
ther insights about the auditory mechanism.
4746

7. Acknowledgement
This paper received funding from the NCCR Evolving Lan-
guage, Swiss National Science Foundation grant number
180888.
8. References
[1] D. Palaz, M. Magimai-Doss, and R. Collobert, “Analysis of cnn-
based speech recognition system using raw speech as input,” in
Interspeech 2015, 2015, pp. 11–15.
[2] S. Camalet, T. Duke, F. J¨ulicher, and J. Prost, “Auditory sensitiv-
ity provided by self-tuned critical oscillations of hair cells,” Pro-
ceedings of the national academy of sciences, vol. 97, no. 7, pp.
3183–3188, 2000.
[3] A. Hudspeth, F. J¨ulicher, and P. Martin, “A critique of the critical
cochlea: Hopf—a bifurcation—is better than none,” Journal of
neurophysiology, vol. 104, no. 3, pp. 1219–1229, 2010.
[4] D. W. Smith and A. Keil, “The biological role of the medial olivo-
cochlear efferents in hearing: separating evolved function from
exaptation,” Frontiers in systems neuroscience, vol. 9, p. 12, 2015.
[5] W. B. Warr, J. B. Boche, and S. T. Neely, “Efferent innervation of
the inner hair cell region: origins and terminations of two lateral
olivocochlear systems,” Hearing research, vol. 108, no. 1-2, pp.
89–111, 1997.
[6] M. R. E. U. Shougat, X. Li, S. Shao, K. McGarvey, and
E. Perkins, “Hopf physical reservoir computer for reconfigurable
sound recognition,” Scientific Reports, vol. 13, no. 1, p. 8719,
2023.
[7] G. Von B´ek´esy, “Experiments in hearing,” McGraw-Hill, 1960.
[8] T. Gold, “Hearing. ii. the physical basis of the action of the
cochlea,” Proceedings of the Royal Society of London. Series B-
Biological Sciences, vol. 135, no. 881, pp. 492–498, 1948.
[9] W. E. Brownell, C. R. Bader, D. Bertrand, and Y. De Ribaupierre,
“Evoked mechanical responses of isolated cochlear outer hair
cells,” Science, vol. 227, no. 4683, pp. 194–196, 1985.
[10] C. D. Geisler, “A model of the effect of outer hair cell motility on
cochlear vibrations,” Hearing research, vol. 24, no. 2, pp. 125–
131, 1986.
[11] S. T. Neely, “A model of cochlear mechanics with outer hair cell
motility,” The journal of the acoustical society of America, vol. 94,
no. 1, pp. 137–146, 1993.
[12] M. Russo, M. Stella, M. Sikora, and V. Peki´c, “Robust cochlear-
model-based speech recognition,” Computers, vol. 8, no. 1, p. 5,
2019.
[13] R. Karuppuswamy and K. Arumugam, “Folded architecture for
digital gammatone filter used in speech processor of cochlear im-
plant,” ETRI Journal, vol. 35, no. 4, pp. 697–705, 2013.
[14] W. Ngamkham, C. Sawigun, S. Hiseni, and W. A. Serdijn, “Ana-
log complex gammatone filter for cochlear implant channels,” in
Proceedings of 2010 IEEE International Symposium on Circuits
and Systems, 2010, pp. 969–972.
[15] S. Tabibi, A. Kegel, W. K. Lai, and N. Dillier, “Investigating the
use of a gammatone filterbank for a cochlear implant coding strat-
egy,” Journal of Neuroscience Methods, vol. 277, p. 63–74, 2017.
[16] X. Zhang, M. G. Heinz, I. C. Bruce, and L. H. Carney, “A phe-
nomenological model for the responses of auditory-nerve fibers: I.
nonlinear tuning with compression and suppression,” The Journal
of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 109, no. 2, pp. 648–670,
2001.
[17] B. Cramer, Y. Stradmann, J. Schemmel, and F. Zenke, “The Hei-
delberg Spiking Data Sets for the Systematic Evaluation of Spik-
ing Neural Networks,” IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks
and Learning Systems, pp. 1–14, 2020.
[18] G. Zweig, R. Lipes, and J. Pierce, “The cochlear compromise,”
The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 59, no. 4,
pp. 975–982, 1976.
[19] J. B. Allen, “Cochlear micromechanics—a physical model of
transduction,” The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America,
vol. 68, no. 6, pp. 1660–1670, 1980.
[20] C. R. Steele and L. A. Taber, “Comparison of wkb and finite dif-
ference calculations for a two-dimensional cochlear model,” The
Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 65, no. 4, pp.
1001–1006, 1979.
[21] R. F. Lyon, “Cascades of two-pole–two-zero asymmetric res-
onators are good models of peripheral auditory function,” The
Journal of the Acoustical Society of America (JASA), vol. 130,
no. 6, pp. 3893–3904, Dec. 2011.
[22] ——, Human and Machine Hearing: Extracting Meaning from
Sound.
Cambridge University Press, 2017.
[23] G. Terreros and P. Delano, “Corticofugal modulation of peripheral
auditory responses,” Frontiers in Systems Neuroscience, vol. 9, 09
2015.
[24] G. E. Romero and L. O. Trussell, “Central circuitry and function
of the cochlear efferent systems,” Hearing research, vol. 425, p.
108516, 2022.
[25] G. L. Rasmussen, “The olivary peduncle and other fiber projec-
tions of the superior olivary complex,” Journal of Comparative
Neurology, vol. 84, no. 2, pp. 141–219, 1946.
[26] T. A. Duke and F. J¨ulicher, “Critical oscillators as active elements
in hearing,” Active processes and otoacoustic emissions in hear-
ing, pp. 63–92, 2008.
[27] E. Hopf, “Abzweigung einer periodischen l¨osung von einer sta-
tion¨aren l¨osung eines differentialsystems,” Ber. Math.-Phys. Kl
S¨achs. Akad. Wiss. Leipzig, vol. 94, pp. 1–22, 1942.
[28] P. Martin and A. Hudspeth, “Active hair-bundle movements can
amplify a hair cell’s response to oscillatory mechanical stimuli,”
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, vol. 96, no. 25,
pp. 14 306–14 311, 1999.
[29] A. Hudspeth, “Making an effort to listen: mechanical amplifica-
tion in the ear,” Neuron, vol. 59, no. 4, pp. 530–545, 2008.
[30] R. Stoop, K. Kanders, L. Novelli, and F. Gomez, “Novel insights
into cochlear information processing,” in Proceedings of the 2016
International Symposium on Nonlinear Theory and its Applica-
tions (NOLTA2016), 2016, pp. 497–500.
[31] E. W. Large, F. V. Almonte, and M. J. Velasco, “A canonical
model for gradient frequency neural networks,” Physica D: Non-
linear Phenomena, vol. 239, no. 12, pp. 905–911, 2010.
[32] J. C. Kim and E. W. Large, “Signal processing in periodically
forced gradient frequency neural networks,” Frontiers in compu-
tational neuroscience, vol. 9, p. 152, 2015.
[33] M. Ravanelli and Y. Bengio, “Speech and speaker recog-
nition from raw waveform with sincnet,”
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1812.05920, 2018.
[34] J. S. Garofolo, “Timit acoustic phonetic continuous speech cor-
pus,” Linguistic Data Consortium, 1993.
[35] M. Ravanelli, T. Parcollet, and Y. Bengio, “The pytorch-kaldi
speech recognition toolkit,” in In Proc. of ICASSP, 2019.
[36] L. Coppieters de Gibson and P. N. Garner, “Training a filter-based
model of the cochlea in the context of pre-trained acoustic mod-
els,” in Acoustics, vol. 6, no. 2, 2024, pp. 470–488.
[37] L. Coppieters de Gibson and P. N. Garner, “Low-level physiolog-
ical implications of end-to-end learning for speech recognition,”
in Interspeech, 2022, pp. 749–753.
4747

