AISHELL-5: The First Open-Source In-Car Multi-Channel Multi-Speaker
Speech Dataset for Automatic Speech Diarization and Recognition
Yuhang Dai1, He Wang1, Xingchen Li1, Zihan Zhang1, Shuiyuan Wang1, Lei Xie1∗, Xin Xu2,
Hongxiao Guo2, Shaoji Zhang2, Hui Bu2, Wei Chen3
1Audio, Speech and Language Processing Group(ASLP@NPU), School of Computer Science,
Northwestern Polytechnical University, Xi’an, China
2Beijing AISHELL Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing, China
3Li Auto Inc., Beijing, China
yhdai@mail.nwpu.edu.cn, lxie@nwpu.edu.cn
Abstract
This paper delineates AISHELL-5, the first open-source in-car
multi-channel multi-speaker Mandarin automatic speech recog-
nition (ASR) dataset. AISHLL-5 includes two parts: (1) over
100 hours of multi-channel speech data recorded in an electric
vehicle across more than 60 real driving scenarios. This au-
dio data consists of four far-field speech signals captured by
microphones located on each car door, as well as near-field sig-
nals obtained from high-fidelity headset microphones worn by
each speaker. (2) a collection of 40 hours of real-world environ-
mental noise recordings, which supports the in-car speech data
simulation. Moreover, we also provide an open-access, repro-
ducible baseline system based on this dataset. This system fea-
tures a speech frontend model that employs speech source sep-
aration to extract each speaker’s clean speech from the far-field
signals, along with a speech recognition module that accurately
transcribes the content of each individual speaker. Experimental
results demonstrate the challenges faced by various mainstream
ASR models when evaluated on the AISHELL-5. We firmly
believe the AISHELL-5 dataset will significantly advance the
research on ASR systems under complex driving scenarios by
establishing the first publicly available in-car ASR benchmark.
Index Terms: AISHELL-5, in-car speech processing, speech
frontend, speech recognition.
1. Introduction
Unlike common automatic speech recognition (ASR) applica-
tions in the home or smart assistant scenarios, in-car ASR sys-
tems encounter a range of unique challenges. These systems
must contend with various internal and external noise sources,
including wind, engine sound, tire noise, car stereos, and nearby
vehicles, all of which contribute to a highly complex acous-
tic environment. Moreover, conversations between the driver
and passengers frequently introduce overlapping speech, further
complicating the recognition progress. Fundamentally, building
a robust in-car speech recognition system hinges on addressing
two key issues: the complex acoustic environment, and the fre-
quent occurrence of overlapping speech. While innovative de-
signs for speech frontend and recognition model architectures
are crucial, there is an increasing demand among researchers for
specialized open-source datasets that can facilitate in-car data
augmentation and model training.
First, the issue of speaker overlap has attracted a lot of at-
tention from researchers, leading to the development of sev-
eral open-source datasets specifically designed to cover this sit-
uation. AISHELL-4 [1] and AliMeeting [2] are both multi-
speaker Mandarin ASR datasets recorded by multi-channel mi-
*Corresponding author.
crophone arrays in indoor meeting scenarios, of which the
speech captures lots of key characteristics of free-talk conver-
sation, such as pauses and speaker overlaps. To date, these
two datasets have played a crucial role in evaluating ASR per-
formance in multi-speaker Mandarin meeting scenarios, effec-
tively testing the robustness of models against far-field and
overlapping speech. LibriMix [3] is an open-source English
dataset designed for speech separation and multi-speaker ASR
in noisy environments. It derives from the freely available Lib-
riSpeech [4] dataset and WHAM! [5] noise dataset, where Lib-
riSpeech provides clean speech signals and WHAM! provides
noise samples to create noisy mixtures. However, the data in
the LibriMix dataset, which is constructed by directly splicing
and overlapping existing speech samples, cannot accurately re-
flect real-world scenarios. Except for the open-source datasets,
some researches [6, 7] bring up various data simulation meth-
ods, which alleviate the issue of low model accuracy caused by
data shortage to a certain extent.
Second, regarding the complex in-car acoustic environ-
ment, only a few open-source datasets can cover it. MDT-ASR-
C0011 is recorded in real in-car environments, reflecting real
acoustic conditions and background noise. However, it com-
prises only 6 hours of data, which is insufficient to cover the
complexities of real-world in-car driving scenarios. The Intelli-
gent Cockpit Speech Recognition Challenge (ICSRC) 2022 [8]
was successfully held and introduced a 20-hour single-channel
in-car ASR test set, recorded by a high-fidelity microphone in a
hybrid electric vehicle, focusing on the speech command recog-
nition within smart cockpits. Although the ICSRC dataset is
indeed pioneering in the field of in-car ASR, its limited data
size and focus on vehicle control commands restrict its applica-
bility for enhancing ASR systems designed for multi-speaker
dialogues in diverse driving conditions. In 2024, the In-Car
Multi-Channel Automatic Speech Recognition (ICMC-ASR)
challenge [9] was launched, attracting nearly 100 participat-
ing teams and focusing on advanced in-car speech processing
under complex driving scenarios. The challenge consists of
two tracks: Track I, designated as the ASR track, provides the
ground-truth timestamps indicating when each speaker speaks.
Its evaluation set (Eval1) is measured by character error rate
(CER) as the evaluation metric; Track II is for automatic speech
diarization and recognition (ASDR), with no timestamps pro-
vided in the evaluation set (Eval2), which requires a system to
do speaker diarization first to get predicted timestamps of every
speaker, and then transcribe their speech separately, with con-
catenated minimum permutation character error rate (cpCER)
as the evaluation metric.
1https://www.magicdatatech.cn/datasets/asr/mdt-asr-c001-
mandarin-chinese-speech-recognition-corpus
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
5493 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1886

Table 1: An illustration of the diverse sub-scenes in AISHELL-5, including scene numbers (day and night), window status, car driving
status, air-conditioning status, and car stereo status. Apart from the sub-scene shown in the table, number 1 represents the day scene,
while number 2 denotes the night scene. For example, A1 indicates a stopped car with both the air-conditioning and car stereo turned
off during the day scene.
N: Window open M: All windows are closed
Window state Car state
Index Driver’s side window Sunroof Index Drive state AC Car Stereo
N1 Open 1/3 Closed A Stopped Off Off
N2 Closed Open 1/2 B Stopped Medium Off
N3 Open 1/2 Open 1/2 C Stopped High Medium
Car state D 0-40 km/h Off Off
E 0-40 km/h Medium Off
Index Drive state AC Car Stereo F 0-40 km/h High Medium
A Stopped Off Off G 40-80 km/h Off Off
B Stopped Medium Off H 40-80 km/h Medium Off
C Stopped High Medium I 40-80 km/h High Medium
D 0-60 km/h Off Off J 80-120 km/h Off Off
E 0-60 km/h Medium Off K 80-120 km/h Medium Off
F 0-60 km/h High Medium L 80-120 km/h High Medium
As mentioned above, to enhance the accuracy and robust-
ness of in-car ASR systems, there is an urgent need for a sizable
open-source dataset that can simultaneously encompass speaker
overlapping situations and different acoustic environments un-
der various driving scenarios. To further promote research on
in-car speech processing, we fixed all the data-related issues of
the ICMC-ASR challenge dataset, including audio truncation
and mismatched transcription, and now officially open-source
it, called AISHELL-52. It features multi-channel, multi-speaker
free-talking, as close as possible to real-world scenarios, with
an over 100-hour scale. In particular, it is recorded under 60
driving scenarios by varying lots of factors that may alter the
in-car acoustic environment, including the driving speed, car
window, car stereo, air-conditioning, driving day or night, and
so on. Moreover, 40 hours of real-recorded multi-channel noise
signals are also open-sourced for promoting in-car speech data
simulation research. Based on the AISHELL-5 dataset, we also
provide a baseline system that includes a frontend incorporating
speech source separation and an ASR module. Furthermore,
we adopt the track settings and the evaluation sets from the
ICMC-ASR challenge. We believe that AISHELL-5, as a real-
recorded and high-quality in-car speech dataset, can offer a cer-
tain amount of support for this increasingly important ASR ap-
plication scenario, and contribute to advancing human-vehicle
interaction towards greater accuracy and convenience.
2. Dataset
The AISHELL-5 dataset is recorded inside a hybrid electric car,
with a far-field microphone placed above the door handles of
all four doors to capture far-field audio from different areas of
the car. Additionally, each speaker wears a high-fidelity micro-
phone to collect near-field audio for data annotation. A total
of 260 participants are involved in the recording with no no-
table accents. During the recording, 2-4 speakers are randomly
seated in the four positions inside the car and engaged in free
2https://www.aishelltech.com/aishell 5
conversations without content restrictions to ensure the natural-
ness and authenticity of the audio data. The average duration of
each session is 10 minutes. The scripts for all our speech data
are prepared in TextGrid format. Each session’s TextGrid con-
tains information such as the session duration, speaker details
(number of speakers, speaker IDs, gender, etc.), timestamps for
each audio segment, and the transcribed text.
In normal driving scenarios, the car typically contains var-
ious noises from both inside and outside. External noises in-
clude environmental sounds, wind noise, tire noise, etc., while
internal noises come from sources like music players and air
conditioning. These noises significantly impact the accuracy of
in-car speech recognition systems. To comprehensively cover
the various noise types encountered in real-world in-car scenar-
ios, we carefully design the recording scenes. For environmen-
tal noise, recordings are made with different driving segments
(urban streets and highways) during both daytime and night-
time. About the wind-induced noise and tire noise, we control
the degree to which the car windows are open (fully closed, half
open, and one-third open) and the car’s speed (stationary, low-
speed, medium-speed, and high-speed). For noise inside the
car, we set the music player and air conditioning to different
levels to cover a variety of in-car conditions. These different
sub-scenes are numbered, and all sub-scenes are combined in
various ways to form the final recording scenarios, resulting in
over 60 recording scenarios in total. Specific settings for the
sub-scenes are shown in Table1.
Overall, the AISHELL-5 dataset contains more than 100
hours of speech data, divided into 94 hours of training data
(Train), 3.3 hours of validation data (Dev), and two test sets
(Eval1 and Eval2), with durations of 3.3 and 3.58 hours. Each
dataset includes far-field audio from 4 channels, with only the
training set containing near-field audio. Additionally, to pro-
mote research on speech simulation techniques, we also provide
a large-scale noise dataset (Noise), which has the same record-
ing settings as the far-field data but without any speaker speech,
lasting approximately 40 hours. Detailed information about the
5494

AISHELL-5
Preprocessing
ASR Module
AEC+IVA
Splitting by
TextGrid
Postprocessing
SpatialNet Module
Near-end
wav
Multi-channel far-filed
single speaker wav 
Adjust the volume
by -5 to 5 dB
Select audio of 2 speakers at
different positions
Audio overlay
Generate multi-channel noise
(SNR range from -5 to 5 dB)
Mixture Simulated
in-car data
Train
Noise
AISHELL-5 Eval1 Set
Acoustic Echo
Cancellation
Speech Source
Separation
Segment by 
Oracle Timestamps
Transcribe by ASR
AISHELL-5 Eval2 Set
Acoustic Echo
Cancellation
Speech Source
Separation
Segment by 
VAD Results
Transcribe by ASR
Inference Process
Train Process
Figure 1: Structure of our baseline system, including train process and inference process
subsets of AISHELL-5 is provided in Table2.
Table 2: Statistics about AISHELL-5 datasets, including the
duration of segmented near-field audio (Duration), number of
sessions (Session), number of speakers (Speaker) and including
near-field audio or not (Near-field).
Dataset Duration (h) Session Speaker Near-field
Train 94.75 568 147 ✓
Dev 3.33 18 6 ✗
Eval1 3.30 18 6 ✗
Eval2 3.58 18 6 ✗
Noise 40.29 60 - -
3. Baseline
We develop a multi-channel in-car speech transcription system3
based on the ICMC-ASR baseline 4. The baseline system con-
sists of two primary sub-modules: speech frontend processing
and automatic speech recognition (ASR). We provide the data
preprocessing pipeline in the baseline system, and after process-
ing the data, we train each sub-module independently.
During evaluation, Eval1 is directly processed by the ASR
module. However, Eval2 undergoes a preprocessing step
through the speech frontend module for echo cancellation and
noise reduction before being fed into the ASR system. This
process generates audio data for each speaker, which is sub-
sequently segmented based on voice activity detection (V AD).
Finally, the processed audio is passed through the ASR module
to obtain the transcription. The training and inference process
of our baseline is shown in Figure 1.
3https://github.com/DaiYvhang/AISHELL-5
4https://github.com/MrSupW/ICMC-ASR Baseline
3.1. In-car Speech Frontend Processing
In our baseline system, we adopted a multi-channel acoustic
echo cancellation (AEC) and an Independent Vector Analysis
(IV A) [14] blind source separation algorithm. AEC is used to
remove echo from the recorded microphone signal and IV A is
used to separate speakers from different locations. For AEC,
we use an adaptive filter to estimate and remove the echo from
the microphone signal. Assuming that we have M microphones,
the signal mixture can be represented as Eq. 1.
y(t) = As(t) + n(t). (1)
Here, t is the time index, and y(t) is the vector of the mixed
signals received by the M microphones. A is an M× N mix-
ing matrix, where N is the number of speakers. s(t) represents
the source signals of N speakers, andn(t) is the noise vector. In
AISHELL-5, M = 4 and N = 2. The goal of IV A is to separate
the independent audio s(t) for each seat from the mixed audio
s(t). IV A is a maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) based
blind source separation algorithm that separates the sources by
minimizing the statistical dependence among the source signals.
In IV A, assuming that the source signals are independent, the
separation process can be achieved by maximizing the follow-
ing objective function:
L =
X
t
log (det(A(y(t)))) . (2)
This objective function maximizes the statistical indepen-
dence of the source signals to find the demixing matrix A, thus
achieving the separation of the mixed signals.
In addition, our baseline system also integrates an end-to-
end dereverberation, denoising, and separation approach based
on Spatialnet, implemented using the NBSS5. Spatialnet makes
extensive use of spatial information to perform multi-channel
joint dereverberation, denoising, and separation, making it an
ideal solution for in-car speech frontend processing. We use the
same configuration as the open-source NBSS.
5https://github.com/Audio-WestlakeU/NBSS
5495

Table 3: The results of our system on Eval1(CER(%)) and Eval2(cpCER(%)), using AEC + IVA and Spatialnet frontend with different
ASR Models. The training data of AISHELL-5 includes far-field and near-field data with a total amount of 190 hours. (* indicates the
model is fine-tuned with the AISHELL-5 training Set.)
Model Type Model Training Data Train/finetune Epochs Model Size Eval1 Eval2
AEC + IV A Spatialnet
ASR Models
Transformer
190 hours
100 29.89 M 31.75 77.32 58.23
Conformer 100 45.73 M 26.89 69.55 53.78
E-Branchformer 100 47.13 M 26.05 71.04 51.52
Zipformer-Small 100 30.22 M 31.22 74.86 54.34
Open-Source
Models
Paraformer [10] 60,000 hours - 220 M 20.16 74.04 48.67
Paraformer-Finetuned* 190 hours 10 220 M 16.65 66.68 47.18
Whisper-Small [11] 680,000 hours - 244 M 50.69 79.49 65.72
SenseV oice-Small [12] Over 400,000 hours - 234 M 24.63 75.58 50.64
Qwen2-Audio [13] 520,000 hours - 7B 29.92 76.24 54.48
The model is trained using the complex mean squared er-
ror (cc mse) loss, with a loss scale factor of 100. To stabilize
gradient computation, we use gradient clipping with a norm-
based clipping algorithm and a predefined clipping threshold.
The Adam optimizer is employed with a learning rate of 1e-
3, and the learning rate scheduler follows an exponential decay
strategy.
The training objective is to minimize the loss on the vali-
dation set. We monitor the model’s performance using evalu-
ation metrics such as Signal-to-Distortion Ratio (SDR), Scale-
Invariant Signal-to-Distortion Ratio (SI-SDR), and Perceptual
Evaluation of Speech Quality (PESQ). The window length and
hop size for STFT are 256 and 128, respectively. The real and
imaginary parts of the 4-channel input audio are concatenated
to form an 8-channel input feature. The near-end speech of the
speaker at each seat is used as the training target. Additionally,
40 hours of real-recorded noise is mixed with the training data
as an additional noise source.
Finally, we use a model trained for 100 epochs to perform
frontend processing on Eval2.
3.2. Automatic Speech Recognition
To compare the performance of different ASR models on
the test set, we evaluate several models, including Trans-
former [15], Conformer [16], E-Branchformer [17], and Zip-
former [18], as baselines. The ASR models are trained using
Wenet [19], with Zipformer training and evaluation based on
Icefall, though we only share the decoding results in the base-
line system without providing the related code.
We use the AISHELL-5 training data for ASR training. For
near-field data, we split the audio segments based on timestamp
information. For far-field data, we first apply AEC and IV A
for echo cancellation and speaker separation, then use V AD to
segment the original long audio into shorter segments. This re-
sults in single-channel, single-speaker audio suitable for train-
ing. The final training data consists of near-field and high-
quality far-field single-channel, single-speaker audio, totaling
approximately 190 hours. During Zipformer training, the data
is formatted to be compatible with the Icefall6.
We use 80-dimensional fbank features as input, with
utterance-level mean-variance normalization. The Adam op-
timizer is used, with a maximum of 100 training epochs. A
6https://github.com/k2-fsa/icefall
warm-up and decay learning rate scheduler is employed, with
a peak learning rate of 0.002, warm-up steps set to 25,000, and
a batch size of 18. Finally, we average the last 30 epochs of
all trained models and perform ASR inference on the averaged
model, using attention rescoring for decoding with a beam size
of 10.
3.3. Evaluation and results
We present the baseline system results on the test set, as shown
in Table 3. The table displays results on the Eval1 task and
cpCER results for the same ASR models on Eval2 after apply-
ing two different front-end processing methods. On Eval1, E-
Branchformer achieved the best performance at 26.05% with
the same number of training epochs. On Eval2, ASR recog-
nition results after Spatialnet processing showed a significant
improvement, with about a 20% gain, and E-Branchformer
achieved 51.52% cpCER. We also report results from some
open-source models on the test set. Paraformer performed
well among the open-source models, reaching 20.16% on Eval1
and 48.67% on Eval2 with Spatialnet as the front-end. After
fine-tuning for 20 epochs with the same baseline training data,
Paraformer improved these results to 16.65% and 47.18% with
Spatialnet front-end processing.
4. Conclusions
This paper introduces AISHELL-5, currently the largest open-
source multi-channel, multi-speaker free-talk in-car speech
dataset, tailored for two key issues in current in-car speech pro-
cessing techniques: the complex acoustic environment within
the car and the frequent occurrence of overlapping speech from
driver and passengers. AISHELL-5 is suitable for speech sep-
aration, speech enhancement, noise reduction, and automatic
speech recognition (ASR) tasks targeting in-car scenarios. All
speech data is recorded from the real acoustic environment in-
side an electric vehicle, covering 60 different driving scenar-
ios. It also includes 40-hour real-recorded noise data, which
supports the in-car speech data simulation. Moreover, we pro-
vide an open-access, reproducible baseline system based on this
dataset. We firmly believe that AISHELL-5, as the first open-
source in-car multi-channel speech dataset, can offer a certain
amount of support for this increasingly important ASR appli-
cation scenario, advancing human-vehicle interaction towards
greater accuracy and convenience.
5496

5. References
[1] Y . Fu, L. Cheng, S. Lv, Y . Jv, Y . Kong, Z. Chen, Y . Hu, L. Xie,
J. Wu, H. Bu et al., “AISHELL-4: An open source dataset for
speech enhancement, separation, recognition and speaker diariza-
tion in conference scenario,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.03603 ,
2021.
[2] F. Yu, S. Zhang, Y . Fu, L. Xie, S. Zheng, Z. Du, W. Huang, P. Guo,
Z. Yan, B. Ma, X. Xu, and H. Bu, “M2met: The icassp 2022 multi-
channel multi-party meeting transcription challenge,” in ICASSP
2022 - 2022 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech
and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2022.
[3] J. Cosentino, M. Pariente, S. Cornell, A. Deleforge, and E. Vin-
cent, “Librimix: An open-source dataset for generalizable speech
separation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.11262, 2020.
[4] V . Panayotov, G. Chen, D. Povey, and S. Khudanpur, “Lib-
rispeech: An asr corpus based on public domain audio books,”
in 2015 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2015, pp. 5206–5210.
[5] G. Wichern, J. Antognini, M. Flynn, L. R. Zhu, E. McQuinn,
D. Crow, E. Manilow, and J. L. Roux, “Wham!: Extend-
ing speech separation to noisy environments,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1907.01160, 2019.
[6] M. Ravanelli, P. Svaizer, and M. Omologo, “Realistic multi-
microphone data simulation for distant speech recognition,”arXiv
preprint arXiv:1711.09470, 2017.
[7] C.-C. Wang, L.-W. Chen, H.-S. Lee, B. Chen, and H.-
M. Wang, “Effective noise-aware data simulation for domain-
adaptive speech enhancement leveraging dynamic stochastic per-
turbation,” in 2024 IEEE Spoken Language Technology Workshop
(SLT), 2024.
[8] A. Zhang, F. Yu, K. Huang, L. Xie, L. Wang, E. S. Chng, H. Bu,
B. Zhang, W. Chen, and X. Xu, “The iscslp 2022 intelligent cock-
pit speech recognition challenge (icsrc): Dataset, tracks, baseline
and results,” in 2022 13th International Symposium on Chinese
Spoken Language Processing (ISCSLP). IEEE, 2022, pp. 507–
511.
[9] H. Wang, P. Guo, Y . Li, A. Zhang, J. Sun, L. Xie, W. Chen,
P. Zhou, H. Bu, X. Xu, B. Zhang, Z. Chen, J. Wu, L. Wang, E. S.
Chng, and S. Li, “ICMC-ASR: the ICASSP 2024 in-car multi-
channel automatic speech recognition challenge,” in IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing,
ICASSP 2024 - Workshops, Seoul, Republic of Korea, April 14-19,
2024. IEEE, 2024.
[10] Z. Gao, S. Zhang, I. McLoughlin, and Z. Yan, “Paraformer: Fast
and accurate parallel transformer for non-autoregressive end-to-
end speech recognition,” in INTERSPEECH, 2022.
[11] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak su-
pervision,” 2022.
[12] K. An, Q. Chen, C. Deng, Z. Du, C. Gao, Z. Gao, Y . Gu, T. He,
H. Hu, K. Hu, S. Ji, Y . Li, Z. Li, H. Lu, H. Luo, X. Lv, B. Ma,
Z. Ma, C. Ni, C. Song, J. Shi, X. Shi, H. Wang, W. Wang, Y . Wang,
Z. Xiao, Z. Yan, Y . Yang, B. Zhang, Q. Zhang, S. Zhang, N. Zhao,
and S. Zheng, “Funaudiollm: V oice understanding and genera-
tion foundation models for natural interaction between humans
and llms,” 2024.
[13] Y . Chu, J. Xu, Q. Yang, H. Wei, X. Wei, Z. Guo,
Y . Leng, Y . Lv, J. He, J. Lin, C. Zhou, and J. Zhou,
“Qwen2-audio technical report,” 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10759
[14] T. Kim, T. Eltoft, and T. Lee, “Independent vector analysis: An
extension of ICA to multivariate components,” in Independent
Component Analysis and Blind Signal Separation, 6th Interna-
tional Conference, ICA 2006, Charleston, SC, USA, March 5-8,
2006, Proceedings, J. P. Rosca, D. Erdogmus, J. C. Pr´ıncipe, and
S. Haykin, Eds. Springer, 2006.
[15] L. Dong, S. Xu, and B. Xu, “Speech-transformer: A no-
recurrence sequence-to-sequence model for speech recognition,”
in 2018 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
Signal Processing, ICASSP 2018, Calgary, AB, Canada, April 15-
20, 2018. IEEE, 2018.
[16] A. Gulati, J. Qin, C. Chiu, N. Parmar, Y . Zhang, J. Yu,
W. Han, S. Wang, Z. Zhang, Y . Wu, and R. Pang, “Conformer:
Convolution-augmented transformer for speech recognition,” in
21st Annual Conference of the International Speech Communi-
cation Association, Interspeech 2020, Virtual Event, Shanghai,
China, October 25-29, 2020 , H. Meng, B. Xu, and T. F. Zheng,
Eds. ISCA, 2020.
[17] K. Kim, F. Wu, Y . Peng, J. Pan, P. Sridhar, K. J. Han, and
S. Watanabe, “E-branchformer: Branchformer with enhanced
merging for speech recognition,” in IEEE Spoken Language
Technology Workshop, SLT 2022, Doha, Qatar, January 9-
12, 2023 . IEEE, 2022, pp. 84–91. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1109/SLT54892.2023.10022656
[18] Z. Yao, L. Guo, X. Yang, W. Kang, F. Kuang, Y . Yang, Z. Jin,
L. Lin, and D. Povey, “Zipformer: A faster and better encoder
for automatic speech recognition,” in The Twelfth International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2023.
[19] Z. Yao, D. Wu, X. Wang, B. Zhang, F. Yu, C. Yang, Z. Peng,
X. Chen, L. Xie, and X. Lei, “Wenet: Production oriented stream-
ing and non-streaming end-to-end speech recognition toolkit,” in
22nd Annual Conference of the International Speech Communi-
cation Association, Interspeech 2021, Brno, Czechia, August 30
- September 3, 2021 , H. Hermansky, H. Cernock ´y, L. Burget,
L. Lamel, O. Scharenborg, and P. Motl´ıcek, Eds. ISCA, 2021.
5497
