NeuroSpex+: Dual-Task Training of Neuro-Guided Speaker Extraction with
Speech Envelope and Waveform
Dashanka De Silva1, Siqi Cai∗,3, Saurav Pahuja1,Tanja Schultz2, Haizhou Li1,4
1Machine Listening Lab (MLL), University of Bremen, Germany
2Cognitive Systems Lab (CSL), University of Bremen, Germany
3Department of ECE, National University of Singapore, Singapore
4School of Data Science, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen,China
ddesilva@uni-bremen.de, caisiqi@ieee.org
Abstract
Neuro-guided speaker extraction, i.e. NeuroSpex, aims to
isolate the speech signal a listener is attending to in a multi-
talker environment using reference cues derived from cortical
activity, such as electroencephalography (EEG). Despite re-
markable progress, there remains untapped potential. In this
study, we propose NeuroSpex+, a novel neuro-guided speaker
extraction model that integrates an additional task of recon-
structing the target speech envelope. By simultaneously op-
timizing the model for both the target speech envelope and
speech waveform, NeuroSpex+ reinforces the mask generation
for speaker extraction. Experimental results demonstrate that
the proposed model significantly outperforms baselines, im-
proving overall signal quality.
Index Terms: Speaker extraction, EEG, selective auditory at-
tention, speech envelope
1. Introduction
Humans have an innate ability to focus on a single sound source
while ignoring multiple competing noises, a phenomenon
known as selective auditory attention (SAA), particularly in
challenging environments like cocktail party scenarios [1].
However, traditional machine listening systems struggle to real-
ize this function, and individuals with hearing impairments of-
ten experience diminished effectiveness with conventional hear-
ing aids [2].
Target speaker extraction (TSE) [3, 4] isolates a speaker’s
voice using an auxiliary reference cue that uniquely identifies
the target or attended speech. Various reference cues have been
explored for guiding speaker extraction, including pre-enrolled
speech samples of the target speaker [3], visual cues such as
hand and body gestures [5], lip movements [6], and multi-modal
approaches that combine audio-visual inputs. However, in real-
world scenarios, these cues may not always be accessible or
reliable. In contrast, neural responses provide a robust and in-
herently available reference, making EEG-based TSE a viable
and effective solution [7, 8].
Neuroscience studies have demonstrated a strong correla-
tion between attended speech and the elicited neural responses
[9, 10], enabling auditory attention detection (AAD) from brain
activity [11, 12]. TSE mimics human SAA by isolating the tar-
get speech using an auxiliary reference cue [3]. This reference
cue is crucial for separating the target speech signal and has
led to the development of neuro-guided speaker extraction [2],
offering promising avenues for brain-inspired hearing aids for
those with hearing impairments.
Recent advancements in EEG-based AAD and TSE have
enabled the extraction of attended speech using EEG signals as
a reference in multi-speaker environments. Among them, pio-
neering work BISS [13] utilizes the reconstructed speech enve-
lope derived from EEG signals as a reference cue to facilitate
TSE in complex auditory environments. In contrast, Neuro-
Heed [7], and NeuroSpex [8], have used neural response-based
reference signals, known as EEG embeddings, to guide the ex-
traction process.
Despite these advances, existing methods have not fully
explored the potential of exploiting temporal synchronization
between the speech stimulus and the elicited EEG response.
Research on SAA has demonstrated that the speech envelope
can be decoded from the EEG response [14]. Inspired by this,
we propose NeuroSpex+, an end-to-end neuro-guided speaker
extraction model, in which both the target speech waveform
and target speech envelope are used as the reference cue dur-
ing training. We hypothesize that this dual-task approach will
improve the synchronization of EEG embeddings and enhance
extraction mask generation, resulting in superior performance
in speaker extraction. In contrast to NeuroSpex, NeuroSpex+ is
designed to emphasize the critical role of temporal synchroniza-
tion between neural responses and attended speech. To achieve
this, NeuroSpex+ introduces an innovative dual-task optimiza-
tion strategy, which simultaneously facilitates speech envelope
reconstruction and enhances the EEG encoder’s ability to cap-
ture and represent neural activity effectively.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Section
II presents the proposed NeuroSpex+. Section III describes the
dataset, experimental setup, evaluation metrics, and baselines.
Section IV discusses the results, followed by an analysis of the
findings. Finally, Section V concludes the paper.
2. Methodology
We introduce a dual-task model, i.e. NeuroSpex+, designed to
perform both speech envelope reconstruction and speaker ex-
traction, as depicted in Figure 1. Unlike NeuroSpex [8] that
only uses target speech waveform as the training target, Neu-
roSpex+ features a novel EEG encoder that is trained to recon-
struct the target speech envelope, thus is expected to enforce the
target reference with temporal information embedded in the en-
velope. In brief, the NeuroSpex+ architecture consists of two
primary branches: (1) EEG-to-speech envelope reconstruction;
and (2) speaker extraction. The model is trained end-to-end us-
ing an integrated loss function that jointly optimizes both tasks.
2.1. Speech Envelope as Training Target of EEG Encoder
The EEG-to-speech envelope reconstruction branch is imple-
mented with the novel EEG encoder and speech envelope de-
coder. The EEG encoder processes the 64-channel EEG signal
to extract temporally synchronized information correlated with
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
5568 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1304
Cross Attention
Conv 1x1
Layer norm
Speech Encoder
Speech Mixture
Speech Decoder
Target Speech Waveform
M
X
S
Conv 1x1
Envelope
Decoder
Pre-Conv
SA block
TCN block
EEG
TCN stack
Target Speech
Envelope
Y
xm
xn
EEG
Encoder
Speaker
Extractor
Figure 1: The proposed NeuroSpex+ consists of two main
branches: (left) the EEG-to-speech envelope reconstruction
branch, which includes an EEG encoder and an envelope de-
coder; and (right) the speaker extraction branch, which com-
prises a speech encoder, a speaker extractor, and a speech de-
coder. NeuroSpex+ takes a speech mixture and its correspond-
ing EEG signals as inputs and produces the target speech wave-
form as output.⊗ refers to the element-wise multiplication.
the target speech, generating EEG embeddings Y that serve
as reference signals for the speaker extractor. The speech en-
velope decoder then employs these embeddings Y to recon-
struct the target speech envelope. Specifically, the EEG en-
coder begins with a pre-convolution layer, followed by a stack
of Self-Attention (SA) [15] and Temporal Convolution Network
(TCN) [16] block pairs. The SA mechanism is employed for its
ability to capture temporal dependencies in sequential EEG data
[17]. The TCN blocks further enhance the model by expanding
the receptive field through hierarchical convolutions, enabling
it to capture broader temporal contexts and aggregate informa-
tion across multiple points in the EEG time series data [18].
The EEG encoder exploits temporal dependencies and contex-
tual information inherent in the EEG data, which are crucial for
accurately reconstructing the target speech envelope.
In the EEG encoder, as shown in Figure 1, the pre-
convolution layer with a kernel size of 1 ×3 performs initial
feature extraction, followed bym pairs of SA and TCN blocks,
where m = 4 , to effectively capture the temporal dynamics
of attended speech from EEG features. Each SA block in the
encoder includes a Self-Attention layer, residual connection,
and layer normalization. As depicted in Figure 2 (a), the TCN
block comprises the following layers: a convolution layer with
1× 1 kernel to match the input EEG feature dimension, a di-
lated depth-wise convolution layer with a kernel size of 1 ×8
and a dilation rate of 2, and a point-wise convolution layer to
reduce the number of output channels. Each convolution layer
in the TCN block, except for the final point-wise layer, employs
(b)(a)
Target Speech Envelope
Linear
Output Context Layer
Overlap and Add
Layer norm & LReLU
pointwise Conv
gLN & PReLU
Dilated-depthwise Conv
gLN & PReLU
1x1 Conv1d Conv1d
Figure 2: (a) The TCN block of the EEG encoder. Note that
the speaker extractor also uses the same TCN block in its TCN
stacks. gLN ,PReLU , and Conv refer to global Layer Nor-
malization, Parametric Rectified Linear units, and convolution
operations, respectively. (b) The envelope decoder is designed
to reconstruct the speech envelope from EEG embeddings. The
LReLU denotes Leaky Rectified Linear units.
Parametric Rectified Linear units (PReLU) activation followed
by global Layer Normalization (gLN). The dilation in TCNs fa-
cilitates the efficient processing of variable-length sequences,
enhancing both the robustness and accuracy of the speech enve-
lope reconstruction. The output of the point-wise convolution
layer is then combined with the input to the TCN block through
a skip connection to preserve low-level details and prevent in-
formation loss.
The envelope decoder, as shown in Figure 2 (b), inspired
by the VLAAI architecture [14], transforms EEG embeddings
Y into target speech envelopes. The envelope decoder features
a convolution layer with a 1×8 kernel, Leaky Rectified Linear
units (LReLU) activation, and layer normalization, followed by
a linear layer and an output context layer, collectively referred
to as the VLAAI block. Finally, an Overlap and Add layer con-
verts the decoded envelope embeddings into the final envelope
waveform [19].
2.2. Speech Waveform as Training Target of Speaker Ex-
traction
The speaker extraction branch is adopted from NeuroSpex [8],
incorporating the speech encoder, speaker extractor, and speech
decoder components, as illustrated in Figure 1.
The speech encoder converts the single-channel mixture
signal into a sequence of utterance-based temporal embeddings,
X, which are synchronized with EEG embeddings. This pro-
cess is similar to short-time Fourier transform analysis and uses
a time-domain speech encoding approach [19] with a1× 1 con-
volutional kernel and ReLU activation.
The speaker extractor generates the estimation mask, M, to
separate the target speech from the speech mixture. It takes in
the speech mixture embeddings from the speech encoder and
the reference signal, i.e., EEG embeddings, from the EEG en-
coder. These inputs are fused through a cross-attention block
with a residual connection, where the reference signal serves
as the query and the speech mixture embeddings act as the key
and value inputs. Following this, a series of TCN blocks are
applied to model long-range temporal dependencies and con-
text [8, 19], referred to as the TCN stack. Each stack com-
prises 4 TCN blocks, and this configuration of cross-attention
5569
and TCN stack pairs is repeated 4 times (i.e.,n = 4).
The masked speech embeddings, S, are derived by element-
wise multiplication of the generated mask with the speech mix-
ture embeddings, expressed as S = M⊗ X. To reconstruct
the time-domain single-channel speech waveform, the speech
decoder performs the inverse operation of the speech encoder.
This process involves passing the masked speech embeddings
S through a linear transformation, followed by an overlap-and-
add operation to regenerate the audio signal.
2.3. Dual-Task Loss Function and Optimization
NeuroSpex+ was trained end-to-end using a dual-task loss func-
tion that combines the scale-invariant signal-to-distortion ratio
(SI-SDR) [20] for the primary task of speaker extraction and the
Pearson correlation coefficient (PCC) for the sub-task of speech
envelope reconstruction. The SI-SDR is a widely used metric
in audio signal processing that measures the distortion of a re-
constructed signal compared to the original, independent of the
scale of the reconstructed signal [20]. The PCC measures the
linear correlation between two signals, ranging from -1 to 1,
where 1 and -1 indicate perfect positive and negative correla-
tions, respectively, and 0 indicates no correlation [14]. SI-SDR
and PCC are commonly applied in time-domain speaker extrac-
tion [7, 19] and speech envelope reconstruction [14], respec-
tively. The dual-task loss function is defined as,
L =LSI −SDR +α×L P CC (1)
whereα is a scaling parameter for weighting the PCC loss, em-
pirically set to 0.6. SI-SDR is computed in decibels (dB), while
PCC is a scalar value. Higher SI-SDR and PCC indicate better
speech and reconstruction quality, respectively. Therefore, both
negative SI-SDR and PCC are used in the loss function.
3. Experiment
3.1. Dataset
We conducted the experiments on the KULeuven dataset [21],
which includes EEG recordings from 16 subjects collected with
a 64-channel BioSemi ActiveTwo system at a sampling rate of
8,192 Hz. Each subject participated in 8 trials, listening di-
chotically to Dutch stories narrated by two male speakers, with
attention directed toward one speaker. The speech recordings
were sampled at 8 kHz, with the attended and unattended speech
mixed at 0 dB. EEG was referenced to the average of all elec-
trodes, filtered between 1 and 32 Hz, and down-sampled to 128
Hz. The dataset provides 128 trials across all subjects, totaling
12.8 hours of speech-EEG data, standardized by trial.
3.2. Subject Independent Setup
We employed a subject-independent cross-validation approach
to evaluate our proposed model and all baselines. The dataset
was divided into three subsets: training, validation, and test. In
each cross-validation fold, one subject’s 8 trials were used as
the test set, another subject’s 8 trials as the validation set, and
the remaining 14 subjects’ trials, totaling 14× 8, as the training
set. This process was repeated across 16 folds for 16 subjects,
ensuring each subject was used as the test set once. All models
were trained on each fold, and the average results were reported.
Each trial, with a duration of 360 seconds, was empirically seg-
mented into 4-second windows with a hop length of 1 second
for all subsets, resulting in 2,856 segments for both the test and
validation sets and 39,984 for training. Models are trained on
the training set, with performance monitored on the validation
set after each epoch to adjust hyperparameters.
All implementations are performed using PyTorch on 4
Nvidia RTX A6000 GPUs with random seeds for reproducibil-
ity. Models are trained end-to-end with the Adam optimizer
(initial learning rate of 0.0001). A learning rate scheduler (0.5
decay) was applied if validation loss stagnated for 5 epochs, and
early stopping was employed after 25 epochs without improve-
ment. Training runs for around 100 epochs or until conver-
gence, with a batch size of 16, Xavier initialization for weights,
and gradient clipping during training.
3.3. Evaluation Metrics and Baselines
In line with previous studies [8, 7], we use the following evalua-
tion metrics: SDR improvement (SDRi), SI-SDR improvement
(SI-SDRi), Perceptual Evaluation of Speech Quality (PESQ),
and Short-Term Objective Intelligibility (STOI) for the speaker
extraction, and PCC for the envelope reconstruction. SDRi
[20] and SI-SDRi measure the improvement in extracted speech
quality compared to the mixture signal. PESQ [22] measures
the quality and naturalness of extracted speech, STOI [23] as-
sesses intelligibility, and PCC quantifies the similarity between
the reconstructed and original speech envelopes. Higher values
for all metrics indicate better performance.
We benchmark NeuroSpex+ against three baselines: Neu-
roSpex [8], the latest model upon which this paper is built; Neu-
roHeed [7], a previous work that also performs TSE using EEG
neural responses as the sole reference cue; BISS [13], a seminal
work that uses a reconstructed speech envelope as the reference
cue. Compared to BISS, the NeuroSpex+ employs a dual-task
strategy where an EEG encoder generates the cue while con-
currently reconstructing the speech envelope to capture EEG-
attended speech dynamics.
To evaluate the performance of envelope reconstruction, we
compared our EEG-to-speech envelope reconstruction branch
separately with several baselines: a linear decoder [11], VLAAI
[14], and FCNN and CNN by [24]. The VLAAI is a
convolution-based architecture that excels in decoding speech
envelopes from EEG signals by accurately mapping neural re-
sponses. The envelope decoder in our proposed model in-
corporates components from the VLAAI architecture. FCNN
and CNN baselines are employed as feed-forward dense and
convolution-based networks, respectively. All models under the
ablation study were trained on the same dataset in a subject-
independent manner but tested on the validation set.
4. Results
We evaluate the proposed NeuroSpex+ through subject-
independent cross-validation, comparisons with baseline mod-
els, and an ablation study. The statistical significance of results
was assessed using paired t-tests.
Figure 3 depicts the SI-SDRi obtained by our proposed
NeuroSpex+ for each subject in the KULeuven dataset. The
average SI-SDRi score across all subjects is 17.083 dB, with a
standard deviation of 2.597. The violin plots show a uniform
distribution of SI-SDRi across subjects, indicating consistent
performance with no significant outliers. This suggests that our
model exhibits robust performance and generalizability across
different subjects.
We compare our NeuroSpex+ with several baseline models,
as summarized in Table 1. Note that NeuroSpex+ ∗, which ex-
5570
Figure 3: Violin plots of SI-SDR improvement (SI-SDRi) of the
extracted speech for each subject using NeuroSpex+.
Table 1: Performance comparison of NeuroSpex+ with its com-
petitive baselines on the test set in terms of SI-SDR (dB) and SI-
SDRi (dB) for speech quality, PESQ and STOI for intelligibility.
NeuroSpex+∗ denotes a NeuroSpex implementation using the
architecture in Figure 1 without the speech envelope as a train-
ing target. ‘*’ and ‘**’ in the SDRi and SI-SDRi columns denote
statistically significant differences atp< 0.01 andp< 0.001,
respectively, when compared to NeuroSpex+.
Model SDRi SI-SDRi PESQ STOI
BISS [13] 2.430 ∗∗ 1.835∗∗ -0.045 0.106
NeuroHeed [7] 12.362 ∗ 11.751∗ 2.282 0.673
NeuroSpex [8] 13.818 ∗ 12.275∗ 2.319 0.795
NeuroSpex+∗ 14.187∗ 13.677∗ 2.408 0.826
NeuroSpex+ 15.352 14.745 2.514 0.859
cludes the envelope decoder compared to NeuroSpex+, is used
to assess the impact of envelope reconstruction. The distin-
guishing feature between NeuroSpex+* and NeuroSpex is the
EEG encoder, where the EEG encoder in NeuroSpex+* incor-
porates TCN blocks to improve the representation of temporal
dynamics.
It can be observed that both NeuroSpex+ and NeuroSpex+∗
exhibit statistically significant improvements over previous
models across all metrics: SI-SDR and SI-SDRi for speech
quality (p< 0.01), and PESQ and STOI for intelligibility. Fur-
thermore, NeuroSpex+ shows superior performance relative to
NeuroSpex+∗, achieving a significant improvement of 1.068 dB
in SI-SDRi. This finding supports our hypothesis that the en-
velope decoder can further improve EEG embedding synchro-
nization and mask extraction, enhancing speaker extraction per-
formance. NeuroSpex+ ∗ still outperforms NeuroHeed which
can be attributed to the EEG encoder with SA and TCN pairs.
Moreover, the BISS baseline shows significantly inferior perfor-
mance across all models, as it employs a subject-specific linear
decoder for envelope reconstruction, which is trained on single-
talker data.
An ablation study is conducted to investigate the contri-
butions of the main components of the NeuroSpex+. Table 2
shows the performance of different model configurations, where
a single SA and TCN pair is used for the EEG encoder and the
envelope decoder has been enhanced. The results show that in-
corporating envelope reconstruction leads to improved perfor-
mance. Furthermore, the adoption of the VLAAI block results
in a significant enhancement in the reconstruction evaluation
Table 2: Ablation study to evaluate the impact of different model
components on overall performance, assessed on the validation
set.
EEG Envelope SI-SDRi (dB) PCC
Encoder Decoder
Linear - 3.652 -
SA+TCN - 10.283 -
SA+TCN Linear 12.719 0.003
SA+TCN Conv+Linear 13.067 0.009
SA+TCN VLAAI block 14.155 0.017
metric, PCC.
To assess the performance of speech envelope reconstruc-
tion, we isolated the EEG-to-speech envelope reconstruction
branch from NeuroSpex+. We compared it against various en-
velope reconstruction baselines using PCC, as detailed in Ta-
ble 3. Although the VLAAI baseline achieved the highest
reconstruction score, this result is attributed to its relatively
high parameter count. By integrating key components from the
VLAAI model into our EEG-to-speech envelope reconstruction
branch, which uses fewer parameters, our model also demon-
strates competitive performance.
The PCC values reported in Table 3 are relatively low com-
pared to what can normally be expected in typical envelope re-
construction [14, 24]. This is because the attended speech en-
velopes are reconstructed from elicited EEG responses while
having competing speakers in the present, where such complex
auditory environments influence the neural representation of at-
tended speech.
Table 3: Performance comparison of different speech envelope
reconstruction approaches, evaluated in terms of PCC on the
test set.
Envelope Decoder PCC #Params
Linear 0.004 10K
CNN [24] 0.012 186K
FCNN [24] 0.009 186K
VLAAI [14] 0.036 1.74M
EEG-to-speech envelope branch 0.027 658K
5. Conclusion
We validated the idea of augmenting NeuroSpex training by us-
ing the envelope of target speech as the secondary training tar-
get. We have shown that NeuroSpex+ with dual-task training
outperforms the original NeuroSpex with single task training
on the target speech waveform. As the speech envelope can be
derived from the speech waveform itself, the dual-task training
in this study is achieved without the requirement of additional
resources. Future work should explore integrating additional
information from the target speech to further enhance speaker
extraction performance.
5571
6. Acknowledgments
This work is supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemein-
schaft (DFG, German Research Foundation) under Germany’s
Excellence Strategy (University Allowance, EXC 2077, Univer-
sity of Bremen, Germany).
7. References
[1] E. C. Cherry, “Some experiments on the recognition of speech,
with one and with two ears,” Journal of the Acoustical Society of
America, vol. 25, pp. 975–979, 1953.
[2] S. Cai, H. Zhu, T. Schultz, and H. Li, “EEG-based auditory atten-
tion detection in cocktail party environment,” APSIPA Transac-
tions on Signal and Information Processing, vol. 12, no. 3, 2023.
[3] C. Xu, W. Rao, E. S. Chng, and H. Li, “Spex: Multi-scale time
domain speaker extraction network,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on
Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, vol. 28, pp. 1370–1384,
2020.
[4] T. Ochiai, M. Delcroix, K. Kinoshita, A. Ogawa, and T. Nakatani,
“Multimodal speakerbeam: Single channel target speech extrac-
tion with audio-visual speaker clues.” in INTERSPEECH, 2019,
pp. 2718–2722.
[5] Z. Pan, X. Qian, and H. Li, “Speaker extraction with co-speech
gestures cue,” IEEE Signal Processing Letters, vol. 29, pp. 1467–
1471, 2022.
[6] A. Ephrat, I. Mosseri, O. Lang, T. Dekel, K. Wilson, A. Hassidim,
W. T. Freeman, and M. Rubinstein, “Looking to listen at the cock-
tail party: A speaker-independent audio-visual model for speech
separation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1804.03619, 2018.
[7] Z. Pan, M. Borsdorf, S. Cai, T. Schultz, and H. Li, “Neuroheed:
Neuro-steered speaker extraction using eeg signals,” IEEE/ACM
Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, 2024.
[8] D. De Silva, S. Cai, S. Pahuja, T. Schultz, and H. Li, “Neurospex:
Neuro-guided speaker extraction with cross-modal fusion,” in
2024 IEEE Spoken Language Technology Workshop (SLT), 2024,
pp. 341–348.
[9] N. Mesgarani and E. Chang, “Selective cortical representation of
attended speaker in multi-talker speech perception,” Nature, vol.
485, no. 7397, pp. 233–236, May 2012.
[10] J. Kerlin, A. J. Shahin, and L. M. Miller, “Attentional gain
control of ongoing cortical speech representations in a ”cocktail
party”,” Frontiers in Neuroscience , vol. 8, p. 273, 2014.
[Online]. Available: https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/
fnins.2014.00273/full
[11] J. A. O’Sullivan, A. J. Power, N. Mesgarani, S. Rajaram, J. J.
Foxe, B. G. Shinn-Cunningham, M. Slaney, S. A. Shamma, and
E. C. Lalor, “Attentional Selection in a Cocktail Party Environ-
ment Can Be Decoded from Single-Trial EEG,” Cerebral Cortex,
vol. 25, no. 7, pp. 1697–1706, 01 2014.
[12] S. Cai, P. Li, E. Su, and L. Xie, “Auditory attention detection via
cross-modal attention,” Frontiers in Neuroscience, vol. 15, 2021.
[13] E. Ceolini, J. Hjortkjær, D. D. Wong, J. O’Sullivan, V . S. Ragha-
van, J. Herrero, A. D. Mehta, S.-C. Liu, and N. Mesgarani, “Brain-
informed speech separation (BISS) for enhancement of target
speaker in multitalker speech perception,” NeuroImage, vol. 223,
p. 117282, 2020.
[14] B. Accou, J. Vanthornhout, H. V . hamme, and T. Francart, “De-
coding of the speech envelope from EEG using the VLAAI deep
neural network,” Scientific Reports, vol. 13, no. 1, p. 812, 2023.
[15] C. Subakan, M. Ravanelli, S. Cornell, M. Bronzi, and J. Zhong,
“Attention is all you need in speech separation,” inICASSP 2021-
2021 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2021, pp. 21–25.
[16] K. Liu, F. Ke, X. Huang, R. Yu, F. Lin, Y . Wu, and D. W. K.
Ng, “DeepBAN: A temporal convolution-based communication
framework for dynamic WBANs,” IEEE Transactions on Com-
munications, vol. 69, no. 10, pp. 6675–6690, 2021.
[17] M. Borsdorf, S. Cai, S. Pahuja, D. De Silva, H. Li, and T. Schultz,
“Attention and sequence modeling for match-mismatch classifica-
tion of speech stimulus and EEG response,” IEEE Open Journal
of Signal Processing, vol. 5, pp. 799–809, 2024.
[18] J. Lin, A. J. d. L. van Wijngaarden, K.-C. Wang, and M. C.
Smith, “Speech enhancement using multi-stage self-attentive tem-
poral convolutional networks,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Au-
dio, Speech, and Language Processing , vol. 29, pp. 3440–3450,
2021.
[19] Y . Luo and N. Mesgarani, “Conv-TasNet: Surpassing ideal
time–frequency magnitude masking for speech separation,”
IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Pro-
cessing, vol. 27, no. 8, pp. 1256–1266, 2019.
[20] J. L. Roux, S. Wisdom, H. Erdogan, and J. R. Hershey, “SDR –
half-baked or well done?” in ICASSP 2019 - 2019 IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP), 2019, pp. 626–630.
[21] W. Biesmans, N. Das, T. Francart, and A. Bertrand, “Auditory-
inspired speech envelope extraction methods for improved EEG-
based auditory attention detection in a cocktail party scenario,”
IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engi-
neering, vol. 25, no. 5, pp. 402–412, 2016.
[22] A. W. Rix, J. G. Beerends, M. P. Hollier, and A. P. Hekstra, “Per-
ceptual evaluation of speech quality (PESQ)-a new method for
speech quality assessment of telephone networks and codecs,” in
2001 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and
Signal Processings, vol. 2. IEEE, 2001, pp. 749–752.
[23] C. H. Taal, R. C. Hendriks, R. Heusdens, and J. Jensen, “A short-
time objective intelligibility measure for time-frequency weighted
noisy speech,” in 2010 IEEE International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech, and Signal Processings . IEEE, 2010, pp. 4214–
4217.
[24] M. Thornton, D. Mandic, and T. Reichenbach, “Robust decoding
of the speech envelope from EEG recordings through deep neu-
ral networks,” Journal of Neural Engineering , vol. 19, no. 4, p.
046007, 2022.
5572
