What do self-supervised speech models know about Dutch?
Analyzing advantages of language-specific pre-training
Marianne de Heer Kloots1, Hosein Mohebbi2, Charlotte Pouw1,
Gaofei Shen2, Willem Zuidema1, Martijn Bentum3
1Institute for Logic, Language and Computation, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands
2Cognitive Science and Artificial Intelligence, Tilburg University, The Netherlands
3Centre for Language Studies, Radboud University, Netherlands
m.l.s.deheerkloots@uva.nl, H.Mohebbi@tilburguniversity.edu, c.m.pouw@uva.nl,
G.Shen@tilburguniversity.edu, w.h.zuidema@uva.nl, martijn.bentum@ru.nl
Abstract
How language-specific are speech representations learned by
self-supervised models? Existing work has shown that a range
of linguistic features can be successfully decoded from end-to-
end models trained only on speech recordings. However, it’s
less clear to what extent pre-training on specific languages im-
proves language-specific linguistic information. Here we test
the encoding of Dutch phonetic and lexical information in inter-
nal representations of self-supervised Wav2Vec2 models. Pre-
training exclusively on Dutch improves the representation of
Dutch linguistic features as compared to pre-training on similar
amounts of English or larger amounts of multilingual data. This
language-specific advantage is well-detected by trained cluster-
ing or classification probes, and partially observable using zero-
shot metrics. Furthermore, the language-specific benefit on lin-
guistic feature encoding aligns with downstream performance
on Automatic Speech Recognition.
Index Terms : interpretability, self-supervised learning,
language-specificity, speech recognition
1. Introduction
In recent years, self-supervised learning (SSL) algorithms have
been demonstrated to learn powerful representations of spoken
language, in terms of both their downstream task performance
and the richness of their embedding spaces. Despite being
trained only on unlabeled speech recordings, neural SSL models
vastly outperform acoustic baselines at encoding various levels
of linguistic structure, including phonological [1, 2], syllabic
[3] and lexical [4] features. Understanding the linguistic infor-
mation these models encode is relevant not only for engineers
interpreting model behaviour, but also for cognitive scientists
studying language acquisition from spoken input [5, 6].
Despite the wide interest for interpreting SSL model func-
tioning, research has so far primarily focused on English lin-
guistic features encoded by English-only or multilingually pre-
trained models, with some notable exceptions [7, 8, 9, 10]. As
a result, it remains somewhat unclear whether measures detect-
ing linguistic structures in SSL models rely on truly language-
specific representations or more language-general acoustic cor-
relates. For downstream automatic speech recognition (ASR),
both multi- and monolingually trained Wav2Vec2 [11] models
are known to generalize well even to languages not present in
their training data [12, 13]. This could indicate that what these
models learn about speech is not typically language-specific
[14], in line with findings that internal activations of Wav2Vec2
models do not seem strongly influenced by the model’s train-
ing language in distinguishing native vs. non-native phoneme
Figure 1: A set of high front vowels (phonemically distinctive in
Dutch) is most discriminably represented in a model trained ex-
clusively on Dutch. Data points are vowel occurrences sampled
across 3 speakers in Multilingual LibriSpeech.
contrasts [10]. However, the same models do show distinct pat-
terns in predicting brain activity for their pre-training language
vs. a different language [15], and crosslingual comparisons of
Wav2Vec2 models trained on tonal vs. non-tonal languages
have found language-specific advantages in the representation
of suprasegmental features [7, 8].
A key challenge in distinguishing language-specific vs.
language-general speech processing by neural SSL models
is the variability in measures and datasets used to identify
language-specific representations. While some studies use
‘zero-shot’ embedding space distance metrics to measure the
saliency of native vs. non-native phoneme contrasts [10], other
studies use trained classifiers to detect how well language-
specific information can be decoded from internal representa-
tions [7, 8]. Hence, the differences in reported results could be
driven by differences in the methodologies used for testing the
models’ linguistic capabilities.
Here, we aim to investigate language-specific representa-
tions of Dutch linguistic information in self-supervised speech
models, as well as the effects of different analysis pipelines on
the detection of such information. For this purpose, we curated
the SSL-NL evaluation set of publicly available Dutch speech
data and alignments 1. We designed the SSL-NL set to test the
encoding of Dutch phonetic and lexical features in SSL speech
representations, while allowing for comparisons across differ-
ent analysis methods. We also pre-train a Wav2Vec2 model
on the Dutch language exclusively 2 as an additional resource
for studying Dutch-specific speech representations. Comparing
the Dutch model to a monolingual English and a multilingual
1We release the SSL-NL dataset at http://doi.org/10.
5281/zenodo.15548947
2We release Wav2Vec2-NLalong with its training manifest and con-
figuration at http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15550628
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
256 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1526

model, we find that both phone- and word-level features are
best encoded in the Dutch model (e.g. Figure 1), which is also
reflected in its downstream performance on Automatic Speech
Recognition. Notably, the detection of language-specific ben-
efits varies across analysis measures and datasets, underscor-
ing the critical role of data selection and analysis methods in
assessing the impact of language-specific pre-training on self-
supervised speech representations.
2. Models
To investigate the effect of language-specific pre-training on lin-
guistic feature encoding, we compare three Wav2Vec2 models
with identical architectures (7 CNN + 12 Transformer layers),
but with varying amounts of Dutch and other languages in their
pre-training data.
We train w2v2-nl (Wav2Vec2-NL) on 960 hours of spo-
ken Dutch, combining data from the Spoken Dutch Corpus
(CGN; [16]), Multilingual Librispeech (MLS; [17]), and Com-
monV oice (CV; [18]). We sample 537 hours from CGN, includ-
ing both Dutch and Flemish recordings but excluding telephone
conversations (recordings with low sample rate) and sermons
(poor recording quality). The remaining data includes record-
ings of spontaneous conversations and interviews, as well as
read speech and news reports. We segment the CGN recordings
into phrases, and use segments between 2 and 15 seconds in
length as inputs for model training. From MLS, we sample 211
hours of the provided audiobook segments. The remaining 212
hours are sampled from CommonV oice, consisting of short seg-
ments of read aloud speech. Across the full training set, audio
samples range between 2 and 32 seconds in length. We follow
the original configuration for training Wav2Vec2 in [19], only
modifying it to allow longer utterance length and per-device
batch size. We use the fairseq toolkit [20] to pre-train w2v2-
nl for 100k training steps using 4 Nvidia A100-40GB GPUs.
In addition to our Dutch model, we include two additional
models trained on other languages, as well as a model trained
on non-speech acoustics: fb-en, the self-supervised base model
from the original Wav2Vec2 release, pre-trained on 960 hours of
English audiobook recordings from LibriSpeech [19]; fb-voxp-
100k, a multilingual base model pre-trained on 100k hours of
European parliament recordings in 23 languages, including 4,5k
hours of Dutch [21]; and a nonspeech base model trained on
600 hours of acoustic scenes from AudioSet [10]3.
3. Representational analysis methods
We create theSSL-NL evaluation set by sampling speech record-
ings from two different datasets of spoken Dutch. We use a sep-
arate subset of MLS audiobook segments (held-out from w2v2-
nl training data), as well as the IFADV corpus [23] of face-
to-face conversational speech. Based on the speech recordings
and orthographic transcription pairs in each corpus, we obtain
phone- and word-level forced alignments for both IFADV and
MLS using the WebMAUS API. Phone- and word-level repre-
sentations are extracted from each model layer by passing the
full MLS audiobook segment or IFADV conversational turn as
input to the model, and mean-pooling across frame representa-
tions within each phone or word respectively.
For our phonetic analyses we collect samples of 37 Dutch
3HuggingFace [22] identifiers: amsterdamNLP/Wav2Vec2-NL
(w2v2-nl); facebook/wav2vec2-base (fb-en); facebook/
wav2vec2-base-100k-voxpopuli (fb-voxp-100k);
ewandunbar/humanlike-speech-2022 (nonspeech)
phone categories, including 13 vowels ( a:, A, E, e:, ø:, I, i:, y:,
0, u:, o:, O, @ ), 3 diphthongs ( Ei, œy, Au) and 21 consonants ( p,
b, t, d, k, g, V, f, v, s, z, S, x, G, h, m, n, N, r, l, j ). From MLS,
we collect 6,086 phone occurrences in total from 11 different
speakers; from IFADV we collect 3,294 phone occurrences in
total from 9 speakers. We sample 15 occurrences from MLS
and 10 occurrences from IFADV per speaker per phone, except
for [ø:], which occurs more rarely. For our lexical analyses we
sample a total of 1,338 word occurrences (307 unique words)
from MLS and 734 word occurrences (124 unique words) from
IFADV , from which we select smaller subsets for our clustering
and RSA analyses, as explained below.
3.1. Phonetic analyses
3.1.1. Phone identity probing
Following previous studies on English (e.g. [24]), we first ana-
lyze the representation of Dutch phones in our models by fitting
a linear transform to decode phone identity from model hid-
den layer representations. We fit separate multinomial logistic
regression probes for each hidden layer on data from 8 MLS
speakers and 6 IFADV speakers. We evaluate probe prediction
accuracy on the remaining 3 speakers for each dataset. Chance
accuracy for the phone identity probes is 1
37 , since we defined
37 phone categories.
3.1.2. Phone ABX
As an alternative to fitting trained classification probes, the en-
coding of phonetic categories in SSL models has also been in-
vestigated by directly measuring distances in model embedding
spaces (e.g. [10, 25]). In the phone ABX task, we sample
phone occurrence triplets A, B, and X, where A and X belong
to the same phoneme category but B belongs to a different cat-
egory. Phone representations are then evaluated on whether co-
sine similarity is greater for within-category embedding pairs
(comparing A and X) than for between-category embedding
pairs (comparing A and B). We construct phone ABX triplets
based on a set of 59 unique Dutch phoneme contrasts (e.g. /o:/
vs. /O/), while sampling A, B and X from different contexts and
speakers. We evaluate phone ABX accuracy across a set of over
222K ABX triplets (3.7K per contrast) sampled from MLS, and
over 66K triplets from IFADV (1.1K per contrast). Chance ac-
curacy for the ABX measure is 1
2 , since accuracy for each ABX
triplet is binary (testing if AX-similarity > AB-similarity).
3.1.3. Phone clustering
Our final phone-level analysis method examines how well
model embedding spaces cluster phone samples together ac-
cording to our pre-defined Dutch phone categories. The de-
gree of clustering can be measured using silhouette scores
[26, 27], computed by comparing the mean distance between
same-cluster samples with their mean distance to the next near-
est cluster. We compute layerwise average silhouette scores
across phone clusters after reducing model embedding dimen-
sionality to 36 dimensions, either unsupervised (by applying
Principal Component Analysis; PCA), or by optimizing a lin-
ear transform for separability between phone categories (by ap-
plying Linear Discriminant Analysis; LDA). We evaluate the
dimensionality reduced projections on a held-out set of speak-
ers, after fitting them on a train set (applying the same split used
for phone identity probing). Silhouette scores range between -1
and 1, with positive values indicating better cluster separability.
257

MLS
IFADV
*
* *
Figure 2: Layerwise phonetic and lexical analyses, across a read speech (MLS, top row) and a dialogue (IFADV , bottom row) dataset
of spoken Dutch. Measures marked * involve optimized linear transforms, whereas others are computed zero-shot; shading indicates
95% confidence intervals. The Dutch w2v2-nl model achieves highest scores across most analyses of Dutch phone and word encoding,
though the size of this language-specific advantage varies considerably across analyses.
3.2. Lexical analyses
3.2.1. Word clustering
For word clustering analyses, we chose the 50 most frequent
words from the BAK list of basic Dutch preschooler vocab-
ulary [28] within each evaluation subset. We sample up to 9
occurrences for every word, each from a different speaker and
recording (448 occurrences in total for IFADV; 450 for MLS).
We use two thirds of this set (6 out of 9 speakers) to compute
and fit PCA and LDA transformations (reducing the embedding
dimensionality to 49), and we use the final third for computing
silhouette scores to evaluate the degree of clustering by word
type.
3.2.2. Word-distributional structure (Fasttext RSA)
To analyze the encoding of Dutch word-distributional struc-
ture in our set of speech models, we evaluate representational
similarity [29] of speech-based word embeddings to static text-
based word embeddings from a Dutch Fasttext [30] model4. We
compute representational similarity across a set of commonly
occurring words from the same basic preschooler vocabulary
list, sampling up to 3 occurrences from different speakers for
every word (297 word types, 889 word tokens from MLS; 116
word types, 341 word tokens from IFADV). We measure repre-
sentational similarity as the Pearson correlation between pair-
wise cosine distances for each of these word tokens and the
corresponding distances in the text-based Fasttext word embed-
dings. In computing pairwise distances, we exclude word token
pairs of the same type, to avoid effects of word identity.
4. Results of representational analyses
4.1. Phonetic and lexical representations improve with
language-specific pre-training
Across most of our phonetic and lexical analyses, we observe
a moderate to substantial advantage of the w2v2-nl model over
its English and multilingual counterparts (Figure 2). This sug-
gests that Dutch-specific pre-training enhances the encoding of
Dutch phonetic and lexical features in self-supervised speech
models. In the phonetic analyses, the small benefit reflects the
fact that Dutch is phonetically relatively similar to English, as
4facebook/fasttext-nl-vectors
well as other European languages in the multilingual model’s
pre-training data — many of the phone categories in our analy-
sis set are shared by these languages. However, when zooming
in on phones more specific to Dutch, such as the high-font vow-
els [y:], [ø:] and diphthong [œy], we see that they are more
distinctively represented along the first principal components of
the Dutch model’s hidden layer representations, as compared to
the multilingual and English models (Figure 1).
The English model also shows significantly higher scores
than our non-speech baseline model on the lexical analyses.
The majority of words in our lexical analysis sets are not par-
ticularly similar to English words, with some exceptions (e.g.
[bEt], [hArt]). Rather than recognizing Dutch word forms, it
is more likely that the English model better encodes acoustic
differences between words than the nonspeech model. Never-
theless, language-specific information does seem to help the en-
coding of lexical structure, as reflected by the higher scores of
the Dutch and multilingual model (which included Dutch in its
pre-training data) over the English one.
4.2. Differences across analysis measures and datasets
While SSL representations have been analyzed for linguistic
structure before, many such analyses have been performed on
read speech datasets. Moreover, studies differ in the type of
analysis method applied, for example using either zero-shot
ABX tasks or trained probing classifiers. We observe variabil-
ity across both the different analysis measures and the differ-
ent datasets we performed our analyses on (Figure 2). Across
measures which make use of linear projections to optimize
phone identity decoding (probing, LDA), Dutch phonetic en-
coding is clearly enhanced in the Dutch model compared to the
other models. However, this is less clear in measures analyz-
ing phonemic contrasts by directly comparing distances within
each model’s representation space (ABX) or by analyzing the
degree of phone clustering along a subset of its most variance-
explaining components (PCA). The contrast between these re-
sults suggests that language-specific phonetic information may
be encoded in a small subspace of model internal representa-
tions, which is decodable after a linear transformation, but not
very prominently featured across the full embedding space.
In contrast, our lexical analyses show that the word-level
benefit of language-specific pre-training is observable using
both zero-shot (PCA, RSA) and optimized (LDA) analysis mea-
258

sures. While phone clustering silhouette scores significantly im-
prove after fitting LDA projections, word-level silhouette scores
are relatively similar between PCA and LDA clustering met-
rics. Possibly, learned word identities are quite saliently rep-
resented in model embedding space, especially when mean-
pooling across all 20 ms frame representations within words.
Work on word representations in English SSL models has
shown that word identity can be decoded from both mean-
pooled and individual frame representations [4], suggesting that
this is not an effect of the mean-pooling operation itself.
5. Downstream ASR performance
We fine-tune our SSL models for speech-to-text transcription
to examine whether the language-specific advantages in self-
supervised representations also lead to improved performance
on downstream ASR tasks. Each SSL model is fine-tuned on
Dutch read-aloud speech from the CGN (component o), using
78 hours of training data while reserving 10 hours each for de-
velopment and testing. ASR performance is evaluated using
word error rate (WER) on the held-out CGN-o test set. Addi-
tionally, we assess performance on test sets from CV and MLS
(both containing read-aloud speech), IFADV (dialogue speech),
and N-Best [31], a Dutch ASR benchmark featuring conversa-
tional telephone speech and news broadcast recordings. While
we have no expectation of reaching state-of-the-art transcription
performance with our models and fine-tuning set-up, we are in-
terested in comparing relative model performance at this task to
the observed differences in representational quality.
Across all test sets, the Dutch pre-trained w2v2-nl model
consistently achieves lower WER than the English fb-en and
multilingual fb-voxp-100k models (see Table 1). This suggests
that the advantages of language-specific pre-training extend be-
yond self-supervised representations to downstream ASR per-
formance. The performance of the Dutch model is followed by
the multilingual and English models, aligning with the patterns
observed in our phonetic and lexical analyses.
Models CGN-o IFADV MLS CV N-Best
Dutch 10.4 65.6 15.4 21.0 25.2
English 21.5 84.4 32.3 47.9 53.1
Multilingual 12.7 78.8 23.1 34.2 37.2
Nonspeech 43.5 94.9 58.6 78.4 75.7
Table 1: WER results for models fine-tuned on the read-aloud
component of the CGN and evaluated on held out test set (CGN-
o), the test sets of two read-aloud corpora (MLS and CV), a
dialogue corpus (IFADV) and a Dutch benchmark (N-Best).
6. Discussion & Conclusions
We introduced the SSL-NL evaluation set, and used it to com-
pare a new monolingual Dutch Wav2Vec2 model against exist-
ing English and multilingual models. What do these models
represent about the phonetic and lexical structure of Dutch?
We find that linguistic information at both levels can be
accurately decoded from each model’s hidden layer represen-
tations, using a variety of methods. While accuracy is simi-
lar across models at the output of the CNN feature encoder,
a language-specific advantage for the Dutch model emerges
across the model’s Transformer module. Thus, language-
specific pre-training does benefit the encoding of phonetic and
lexical structure in Wav2Vec2 hidden layer representations.
We observe interesting differences across analysis methods.
Phone ABX tasks are widely used to evaluate self-supervised
speech representations, including in studies of native- vs. non-
native speech processing [10, 25]. However, we find that they
may be a less sensitive measure for detecting language-specific
information that is decodable by training classification or clus-
tering probes on model representations. This is an important
consideration for future work aiming to study the language-
specificity vs. -generality of self-supervised representations —
especially in models with relatively high representational di-
mensionalities. For example, large multilingually pre-trained
Wav2Vec2 models may make use of language-specific sub-
spaces to achieve similar linguistic encoding accuracy for indi-
vidual languages as monolingually pre-trained models [32, 13].
Between the Dutch w2v2-nl model and the other mod-
els, we generally observe larger differences on the IFADV dia-
logue dataset than on the MLS read speech dataset. We believe
this reflects an effect of the pre-training data domain beyond
its language-specificity: while the Dutch model’s pre-training
data included conversational speech, the English and multi-
lingual models were respectively trained on read-aloud books
and less spontaneous speech styles (parliament debates). The
effect is particularly prominent for word-distributional struc-
ture, as measured by representational similarity between the
speech models and the text-based Fasttext word embedding
model. Word-distributional patterns are known to significantly
differ between spoken and written language corpora [33], po-
tentially limiting the generalizability of models trained on read
speech [34]. Our analyses show the benefit of training on con-
versational speech not only for enhancing the representation
of conversation-level structures, but also for the encoding of
smaller linguistic units such as phones and words.
When fine-tuning our set of SSL models on ASR, we find
that the benefit of language-specific pre-training is also reflected
in transcription accuracy. However, probe performance and
downstream task accuracy are not necessarily directly related,
and rankings of self-supervised models have shown stark differ-
ences when models are used as feature extractors (i.e. probed)
vs. when they are fine-tuned for the evaluation task [35, 36].
An interesting direction of future research could explore how
the representation of linguistic features causally affects down-
stream text-transcription performance, for example using fea-
ture removal techniques to manipulate model representation
spaces, as has been explored for the manipulation of gender rep-
resentation in ASR models [37].
In this study, we compared models trained on languages
with relatively high phonetic similarity, but still found ob-
servable benefits of language-specific pre-training on encoding
Dutch phone categories, and stronger effects on linguistically
more complex features such as word-distributional structure.
We note that we have not tested for specific kinds of lexical
knowledge such as syntactic or semantic categories — to the ex-
tent that self-supervised models represent such higher-level in-
formation, we would expect stronger language-specific effects,
but this remains to be tested. We hope that the w2v2-nl model
and the SSL-NL evaluation set provide valuable resources for
such further investigations into language-specific representa-
tions in self-supervised speech models.
7. Acknowledgements
We would like to thank David van Leeuwen and Nik Vaessen
for sharing the N-Best evaluation dataset. This work used the
Dutch national e-infrastructure with the support of the SURF
Cooperative using grant no. EINF-8324.
259

8. References
[1] L. ten Bosch, M. Bentum, and L. Boves, “Phonemic competition
in end-to-end ASR models,” in Interspeech 2023, pp. 586–590.
[2] M. Bentum, L. ten Bosch, and T. Lentz, “The Processing of Stress
in End-to-End Automatic Speech Recognition Models,” in Inter-
speech 2023, pp. 2350–2354.
[3] M. de Heer Kloots and W. Zuidema, “Human-like Linguistic
Biases in Neural Speech Models: Phonetic Categorization and
Phonotactic Constraints in Wav2Vec2.0,” inInterspeech 2024, pp.
4593–4597.
[4] A. Pasad, C.-M. Chien, S. Settle, and K. Livescu, “What Do Self-
Supervised Speech Models Know About Words?” TACL, vol. 12,
pp. 372–391, 2024.
[5] M. Lavechin, M. de Seyssel, H. Titeux, G. Wisniewski, H. Bredin,
A. Cristia, and E. Dupoux, “Simulating Early Phonetic and Word
Learning Without Linguistic Categories,”Developmental Science,
vol. 28, no. 2, p. e13606, 2025.
[6] E. Dupoux, “Cognitive science in the era of artificial intelligence:
A roadmap for reverse-engineering the infant language-learner,”
Cognition, vol. 173, pp. 43–59, 2018.
[7] G. Shen, M. Watkins, A. Alishahi, A. Bisazza, and G. Chrupała,
“Encoding of lexical tone in self-supervised models of spoken lan-
guage,” in NAACL 2024, Mexico City, Mexico, pp. 4250–4261.
[8] A. de la Fuente and D. Jurafsky, “A layer-wise analysis of Man-
darin and English suprasegmentals in SSL speech models,” in In-
terspeech 2024, pp. 1290–1294.
[9] Z. Dugonji ´c, A. Pupier, B. Lecouteux, and M. Coavoux, “What
Has LeBenchmark Learnt about French Syntax?” in LREC-
COLING 2024 , N. Calzolari, M.-Y . Kan, V . Hoste, A. Lenci,
S. Sakti, and N. Xue, Eds., pp. 17 493–17 499.
[10] J. Millet and E. Dunbar, “Do self-supervised speech models de-
velop human-like perception biases?” in ACL 2022, S. Muresan,
P. Nakov, and A. Villavicencio, Eds., pp. 7591–7605.
[11] A. Baevski, H. Zhou, A. Mohamed, and M. Auli, “wav2vec 2.0:
A framework for self-supervised learning of speech representa-
tions,” CoRR, vol. abs/2006.11477, 2020.
[12] M. Rivi `ere, A. Joulin, P.-E. Mazar ´e, and E. Dupoux, “Unsuper-
vised Pretraining Transfers Well Across Languages,” in ICASSP
2020, pp. 7414–7418, iSSN: 2379-190X.
[13] A. Babu, C. Wang, A. Tjandra, K. Lakhotia, Q. Xu, N. Goyal,
K. Singh, P. von Platen, Y . Saraf, J. Pino, A. Baevski, A. Con-
neau, and M. Auli, “Xls-r: Self-supervised cross-lingual speech
representation learning at scale,” in Interspeech 2022, pp. 2278–
2282.
[14] T. tom Dieck, P. A. P´erez-Toro, T. Arias, E. Noeth, and P. Klumpp,
“Wav2vec behind the scenes: How end2end models learn phonet-
ics,” in Interspeech 2022, pp. 5130–5134.
[15] J. Millet, C. Caucheteux, P. Orhan, Y . Boubenec, A. Gramfort,
E. Dunbar, C. Pallier, and J.-R. King, “Toward a realistic model
of speech processing in the brain with self-supervised learning,”
NeurIPS 2022, vol. 35, pp. 33 428–33 443.
[16] I. Schuurman, M. Schouppe, H. Hoekstra, and T. van der Wouden,
“CGN, an annotated corpus of spoken Dutch,” in LINC-03 at
EACL 2003.
[17] V . Pratap, Q. Xu, A. Sriram, G. Synnaeve, and R. Collobert,
“MLS: A Large-Scale Multilingual Dataset for Speech Research,”
in Interspeech 2020, pp. 2757–2761.
[18] R. Ardila, M. Branson, K. Davis, M. Henretty, M. Kohler,
J. Meyer, R. Morais, L. Saunders, F. M. Tyers, and G. We-
ber, “Common V oice: A Massively-Multilingual Speech Corpus,”
2020.
[19] A. Baevski, Y . Zhou, A. Mohamed, and M. Auli, “wav2vec 2.0:
A Framework for Self-Supervised Learning of Speech Represen-
tations,” in NeurIPS 2020, vol. 33, pp. 12 449–12 460.
[20] M. Ott, S. Edunov, A. Baevski, A. Fan, S. Gross, N. Ng, D. Grang-
ier, and M. Auli, “Fairseq: A Fast, Extensible Toolkit for Se-
quence Modeling.” ACL, 2019, pp. 48–53.
[21] C. Wang, M. Riviere, A. Lee, A. Wu, C. Talnikar, D. Haziza,
M. Williamson, J. Pino, and E. Dupoux, “V oxPopuli: A Large-
Scale Multilingual Speech Corpus for Representation Learning,
Semi-Supervised Learning and Interpretation,” in ACL-IJCNLP
2021, C. Zong, F. Xia, W. Li, and R. Navigli, Eds., pp. 993–1003.
[22] T. Wolf, L. Debut, V . Sanh, J. Chaumond, C. Delangue, A. Moi,
P. Cistac, T. Rault, R. Louf, M. Funtowicz, J. Davison, S. Shleifer,
P. v. Platen, C. Ma, Y . Jernite, J. Plu, C. Xu, T. L. Scao, S. Gugger,
M. Drame, Q. Lhoest, and A. M. Rush, “HuggingFace’s Trans-
formers: State-of-the-art Natural Language Processing,” 2020,
arXiv.
[23] R. van Son, W. Wesseling, E. Sanders, and H. van den Heuvel,
“The IFADV Corpus: a Free Dialog Video Corpus,” in LREC
2008, N. Calzolari, K. Choukri, B. Maegaard, J. Mariani, J. Odijk,
S. Piperidis, and D. Tapias, Eds. ELRA.
[24] P. C. English, J. Kelleher, and J. Carson-Berndsen, “Domain-
informed probing of wav2vec 2.0 embeddings for phonetic fea-
tures,” in SIGMORPHON 2022, pp. 83–91.
[25] M. Poli, T. Schatz, E. Dupoux, and M. Lavechin, “Modeling the
initial state of early phonetic learning in infants,” Language De-
velopment Research, vol. 5, no. 1, 2024.
[26] P. J. Rousseeuw, “Silhouettes: A graphical aid to the interpretation
and validation of cluster analysis,” Journal of Computational and
Applied Mathematics, vol. 20, pp. 53–65, 1987.
[27] F. Pedregosa, G. Varoquaux, A. Gramfort, V . Michel, B. Thirion,
O. Grisel, M. Blondel, P. Prettenhofer, R. Weiss, V . Dubourg,
J. Vanderplas, A. Passos, D. Cournapeau, M. Brucher, M. Perrot,
and E. Duchesnay, “Scikit-learn: Machine learning in Python,”
JMLR, vol. 12, pp. 2825–2830, 2011.
[28] F. Mulder, Y . Timman, and S. Verhallen, Handreiking bij de Ba-
siswoordenlijst Amsterdamse Kleuters (BAK). ITTA, 2009.
[29] N. Kriegeskorte, M. Mur, and P. A. Bandettini, “Representational
similarity analysis - connecting the branches of systems neuro-
science,” Frontiers in Systems Neuroscience, vol. 2, no. 4, pp. 1–
28, 2008.
[30] P. Bojanowski, E. Grave, A. Joulin, and T. Mikolov, “Enriching
Word Vectors with Subword Information,”TACL, vol. 5, pp. 135–
146, 2017.
[31] J. M. Kessens and D. A. van Leeuwen, “N-best: the northern-
and southern-dutch benchmark evaluation of speech recognition
technology.” inInterspeech 2007, 2007, pp. 1354–1357.
[32] B. M. Abdullah, M. M. Shaik, B. M ¨obius, and D. Klakow, “An
information-theoretic analysis of self-supervised discrete repre-
sentations of speech,” in Interspeech 2023, pp. 2883–2887.
[33] M. Bentum, L. Ten Bosch, A. Van den Bosch, and M. Ernestus,
“Do speech registers differ in the predictability of words?” Inter-
national Journal of Corpus Linguistics, vol. 24, no. 1, pp. 98–130,
2019.
[34] M. Dingemanse and A. Liesenfeld, “From text to talk: Harnessing
conversational corpora for humane and diversity-aware language
technology,” in ACL 2022, S. Muresan, P. Nakov, and A. Villavi-
cencio, Eds., Dublin, Ireland, pp. 5614–5633.
[35] S. Zaiem, Y . Kemiche, T. Parcollet, S. Essid, and M. Ravanelli,
“Speech self-supervised representation benchmarking: Are we
doing it right?” in Interspeech 2023, pp. 2873–2877.
[36] T. Parcollet, H. Nguyen, S. Evain, M. Zanon Boito, A. Pupier,
S. Mdhaffar, H. Le, S. Alisamir, N. Tomashenko, M. Dinarelli,
S. Zhang, A. Allauzen, M. Coavoux, Y . Est `eve, M. Rouvier,
J. Goulian, B. Lecouteux, F. Portet, S. Rossato, F. Ringeval,
D. Schwab, and L. Besacier, “LeBenchmark 2.0: A standardized,
replicable and enhanced framework for self-supervised represen-
tations of French speech,”Computer Speech & Language, vol. 86,
p. 101622, 2024.
[37] A. Krishnan, B. M. Abdullah, and D. Klakow, “On the encoding of
gender in transformer-based asr representations,” in Interspeech
2024, pp. 3090–3094.
260
