warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Voxplorer: Voice data exploration and projection in an interactive dashboard
Alessandro De Luca1,2, Srikanth Madikeri2, Volker Dellwo2
1Linguistic Research Infrastructure, University of Zurich, Switzerland
2Department of Computational Linguistiscs, University of Zurich, Switzerland
alessandro.deluca@uzh.ch, srikanth.madikeri@cl.uzh.ch, volker.dellwo@uzh.ch
Abstract
The acoustic signal of voice is inherently multi-dimensional.
Early speech and voice research often focused on isolated or
limited acoustic features. However, past research has demon-
strated that a comprehensive understanding of voice requires
analysing multiple dimensions simultaneously. The Voxplorer
interactive dashboard addresses this issue by making state-of-
the-art feature extraction and dimensionality reduction methods
more accessible. It allows users to interactively explore, sub-
set, and visualise pre-computed high-dimensional data, or ex-
tract features from recordings directly in the dashboard. The
Voxplorer aims to provide modern technical resources for re-
searchers, broadening the ideas and scope of future researcher
in the ﬁeld of voice communication sciences.
Index Terms: interactive dashboard, explorative data analysis,
feature extraction
1. Introduction
The acoustic signal of voice is inherently multi-dimensional.
Early speech and voice research often focused on isolated or
limited acoustic features—such as fundamental frequency (f0)
in intonation studies, syllable duration in rhythm research, or
formants (F1 and F2) in vowel quality analysis. However, past
research has demonstrated that a comprehensive understanding
of voice requires analysing multiple dimensions simultane-
ously.
Tools like Voice Sauce [1] extract a broad range of
psychoacoustically relevant vocal parameters, while other
approaches rely on abstract acoustic representations, such as
Mel-Frequency Cepstral Coefﬁcients (MFCCs).
Addition-
ally, advanced speaker characterization methods, including
i-vectors [2] and x-vectors [3], transform a speaker’s voice
into hundreds of abstract dimensions speciﬁcally optimized
for speaker identity. These high-dimensional embeddings not
only capture speaker-speciﬁc traits but also encode valuable
para-linguistic information, such as emotions and speaking
style [4, 5]. Extracting and interpreting such multi-dimensional
voice data presents signiﬁcant challenges. Here, we introduce
Voxplorer, a tool designed to facilitate the exploration and
analysis of multi-dimensional vocal characteristics. One of our
inspirations for our dashboard is Tensorﬂow’s TensorBoard
embedding projector. The embedding projector allows users
to visualise data embeddings in a reduced dimensions space
in an interactive ﬁgure. Unfortunately, it does not allow users
to download subsets of the data created through ﬁltering or
interactive selection within the plot.
With the Voxplorer dashboard we aim to provide an all-in-
one tool, providing feature extraction, dataset interactive explo-
ration, dimensionality reduction using different algorithms, and
interactive visualisation. Our goal is to empower speech scien-
tists with access to modern methods and techniques to analyse
complex feature sets and corpora.
2. Workﬂow
The workﬂow is described using a block diagram in Figure 1.
The main workﬂow of the dashboard is the ”visualiser”. Users
are ﬁrst presented with two options:
1. Upload table: upload a table of pre–computed features (CSV,
TSV, or Excel ﬁle).
2. Upload audio: upload a list of audio ﬁles (WAV ﬁles).
For the ﬁrst option, users select columns containing metavari-
ables (labels for observations) after uploading the table.
For the second option, users specify the feature extraction
method and parameters for the audio ﬁles (more details
in section 2.1).
They can also deﬁne metavariables from
ﬁlenames (e.g.
speakerID sex speakingstyle.wav
can be split by ” ” to the variables speakerID, sex, and
speakingsytle).
The dashboard will display the uploaded or computed
table in an interactive table component, allowing the user to
select rows and ﬁlter by values.
The user will also be able
to specify which dimensionality reduction algorithm to use
and any options related to the chosen algorithm in a form.
A description of the dimensionality reduction algorithms is
provided in section 2.2.
The dashboard will then compute
the embeddings of the data features in the reduced space
and display an interactive ﬁgure. Any metavariable that was
speciﬁed during the data processing process will be available
as an option to label by colour and/or by shape the data points.
Any selection made from within the ﬁgure using the box– or
lasso– select tools, or made from the table, is synchronised
between the interactive table and the interactive ﬁgure.
Users are ﬁnally able to export the ﬁgure as an image ﬁle
and both the original or computed, and reduced embeddings
datasets as CSV ﬁles. The table exports can be made for ei-
ther the full dataset as well as for only the currently selected
data.
2.1. Feature extraction methods
For feature extraction methods we decided to focus on meth-
ods that are reliable when applied in an unsupervised manner
to a vast variety of data. Although, this limits the amount of
options we can provide, it does ensure that the feature extrac-
tion output quality is consistent for all users and corpora (apart
from signal quality–related differences).
We settled on pro-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
296

297

