warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Nosey: Open-source hardware for acoustic nasalance
Maya Dewhurst1, Jack Collins1, Justin J. H. Lo1, Roy Alderton2, Sam Kirkham1
1Linguistics and English Language, Lancaster University, United Kingdom
2Department of Language and Communication Science, City St George’s, University of London,
United Kingdom
{m.dewhurst1}{j.h.lo}{s.kirkham}@lancaster.ac.uk, roy.alderton@city.ac.uk
Abstract
We introduce Nosey (Nasalance Open Source Estimation sYs-
tem), a low-cost, customizable, 3D-printed system for recording
acoustic nasalance data that we have made available as open-
source hardware (http://github.com/phoneticslab/nosey).
We
first outline the motivations and design principles behind our
hardware nasalance system, and then present a comparison be-
tween Nosey and a commercial nasalance device. Nosey shows
consistently higher nasalance scores than the commercial de-
vice, but the magnitude of contrast between phonological en-
vironments is comparable between systems. We also review
ways of customizing the hardware to facilitate testing, such as
comparison of microphones and different construction materi-
als. We conclude that Nosey is a flexible and cost-effective al-
ternative to commercial nasometry devices and propose some
methodological considerations for its use in data collection.
Index Terms: nasalance, nasality, acoustics, measurement,
hardware, phonetics, speech production
1. Introduction
Nasality is an integral part of human speech that underpins
many important questions in phonetics and phonology [1, 2].
Achieved by velum lowering, nasality can spread from phono-
logically nasal segments to nearby oral segments via coarticula-
tion in language-, dialect- and speaker-specific ways [3, 4, 5, 6].
Such variation in coarticulation has been said to be a key driver
of sound change in the development of nasal vowels [7]. Be-
yond the segmental level, nasality and denasality as voice qual-
ities have been known to attract social evaluation [8, 9, 10]. In
clinical settings, atypical displays of nasality play a role in the
diagnosis of speech and language disorders [11, 12].
Addressing these issues depends on the ability to reliably
measure nasality and compare nasality between speakers. Nei-
ther, however, has proven straightforward. Acoustic correlates
of nasality in vowels, for example, include A1–P0, F1 band-
width and spectral tilt [13]. Even the relatively robust A1–P0
can fail, especially for high vowels, when the harmonics associ-
ated with both the oral formant and the nasal pole coincide [14].
Baseline and range variation in these acoustic features also adds
to the challenge of comparing their values across speakers [13].
An alternative means of investigating (vowel) nasality, long
established in the clinical domain and recently gaining popu-
larity in phonetic research, is nasometry. Rather than inferring
nasality from spectral characteristics, this method relies on iso-
lating acoustic radiations from the nasal and oral cavities and
capturing them using separate microphones. The most com-
mon measure used to quantify the output from nasometry is
nasalance, which is the ratio between the recorded nasal sound
pressure level and the total oral and nasal sound pressure levels
[15]. A typical calculation of nasalance is
Nasalance =
An
An + Ao · 100
(1)
where An and Ao represent acoustic energy captured by the
nasal and oral microphones respectively, with the ratio scaled
to a percentage value.
Nasalance can reliably separate phonologically oral and
nasal vowels, and has been used in various phonetic studies of
nasality and nasal coarticulation for this purpose (e.g. [16, 17]).
In the clinical realm, normative values of nasalance are typi-
cally developed from read materials with varying proportions
of nasal sounds, in order to infer and diagnose atypical patterns
of nasal airflow (e.g. [18, 19]).
1.1. Recording nasalance data
At present, nasometry is typically carried out using commer-
cially available devices. While differing in specific design, ex-
isting systems share the common premise of mounting two mi-
crophones on either side of an acoustic baffle that is positioned
between the nose and the mouth. Systems typically also incor-
porate microphone pre-amplification and analog-to-digital con-
version. Comparisons of nasalance systems have shown a high
degree of agreement across different commercial hardware so-
lutions [20, 21]. While these offer a user-friendly solution to
nasalance data collection, they suffer from a number of draw-
backs, such as lack of customizability, a frequent inability to
conduct additional analog-domain signal processing, and their
relatively high cost, especially for multi-fieldworker contexts
where many devices are required.
In the face of these challenges, the ‘earbuds’ method has
emerged as a cheap and highly accessible alternative to tradi-
tional nasometry. This involves placing one earbud from a pair
of earphones below the nostril and the other earbud outside the
mouth [22]. The earbuds can be plugged into a microphone
jack, and when incoming sound passes through the speaker coil,
it generates a magnetic force that moves the diaphragm (analo-
gous to how a microphone works). The recordings produced
tend to be of limited quality, and subsequent evaluation has
shown that they are adequate for broad comparisons of average
nasality, but are substantially less fine-grained than commercial
nasometers at capturing smaller systematic differences [23].
We address these issues here by reporting the design and
assessment of open-source, 3D-printable hardware for collect-
ing acoustic nasalance data. We note that our system does not
aim to fully replace the functionality of commercial nasome-
ters, which may have additional data collection, signal process-
ing and data analysis tools, and also provide customer support.
Instead, we believe that our device complements the available
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2265
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1775

Figure 1: Exploded view of 3D model for the nasalance system.
commercial offerings, and also provides a testing platform by
allowing greater customization of nasometry hardware, includ-
ing the use of different microphones and nasometer baffle sizes.
2. Open-source nasalance hardware
2.1. Motivations
We report the design of an open-source, customizable, 3D-
printed nasalance system. Our aims were to develop a reliable
system that is easy to use, cheap to manufacture and provides
additional flexibility as a testing and development platform. For
example, our system allows for customized microphone selec-
tion and conventional microphone-level analog outputs, which
also facilitates custom analog-domain signal processing (e.g.
filtering), and analog-to-digital conversion. This opens up the
possibility of using higher-quality pre-amplifiers and convert-
ers in the signal chain and better integration into multichan-
nel acoustic/articulatory experiments. We provide guidance on
modifying the design and all files necessary to 3D print the com-
ponents in an online GitHub repository.1
2.2. 3D-printed hardware
Figure 1 shows an exploded view of the 3D model comprising
three major components: (i) handle; (ii) baffle; (iii) dual micro-
phone clip, which we review in the rest of this section.
Figure 2 shows an assembled view of the 3D model design.
The bolt at (1) fixes the handle (2) to the baffle (3). The re-
movable microphone clip at (4) slots into the baffle and can be
replaced with alternative versions to allow swapping different
1https://github.com/phoneticslab/nosey
All versioned releases are archived at:
https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15543852
Figure 2: Assembled view of 3D model for the nasalance system.
microphones and/or clips that are positioned closer to or further
away from the edge of the baffle.
2.3. Microphones and clips
Figure 3 shows the 3D diagram of the articulated dual micro-
phone holder. Label (8) shows the base that attaches to the baf-
fle, while (5) and (7) are the microphone clips that attach to
the base plate at (6). Note that the microphone clips in (5) and
(7) are removable and can be replaced with alternative clips to
facilitate the use of different microphones.
The present microphone clips were developed to hold two
AKG CK99L microphones, which are lavalier-format, electret
condenser microphones, with a cardioid polar pattern and fre-
quency bandwidth of 0.15–18 kHz. The front of the clip sits
approximately 32 mm away from the front of the baffle; note
that this does not include the distance that the microphone ex-
tends from the front of the clip. The microphone plate can be
adapted for different distances by adapting the FreeCAD mod-
els included in the repository.
2.4. Printing and other components
A workable model can be achieved using a relatively low-cost
3D printer. For example, we have successfully printed mod-
els using the single-extruder MakerBot Replicator+ using PLA
plastic. In such cases, the PLA plastic is not food-safe and will
absorb moisture, such as saliva and respiratory particles, lead-
ing to the growth of bacteria. To lessen the effect of this, the 3D
printed baffle and handle can be dipped in food-safe epoxy. An
additional measure could include the use of a non-absorbent,
disposable barrier.
In addition to the 3D-printed components, the system also
requires the following nuts and bolts to assemble the parts:
1. M3 nut and bolt (12 mm long) [×2]
2. M8 bolt (12 mm long) [×1]
These bolts are used to fix the baffle to the handle (M8 bolt)
and to attach the microphone clips to the removable mounting
2266

Figure 3: 3D model of the removable, articulated, dual micro-
phone holder.
plate (M3 nut / bolt). This also facilitates the articulated micro-
phone clip, which can be angled by loosening the bolts.
2.5. Customization
We provide editable FreeCAD models and 3D Manufacturing
Format files for all model components. The repository includes
details on how to modify the baffle shape and distance of the
microphone cutout in the baffle. The shape of the baffle can
be edited by modifying the highlighted measurements in Fig-
ure 4, and the position of the cutout for the microphone can be
edited by modifying the measurements in Figure 5. Please see
the online repository for further details on customization.
3. Comparison with commercial system
3.1. Overview
We assessed the performance of Nosey by comparing it to a
commercial nasometer: the Nasality Microphone developed by
icSpeech (Canterbury, UK). The basic designs of the two sys-
tems are very similar (and also very similar to other commercial
devices), with two small microphones separated by an acoustic
baffle, which is mounted to a handle. Participants hold the de-
vice so that the baffle rests against the skin between the nose
and the top lip, separating nasal and oral airflow. The purpose
of this comparison is to establish the performance of different
systems in terms of within-speaker differences in patterns of
nasal coarticulation across various phonological environments.
3.2. Data collection
We recorded data from two male speakers in their early 30s (au-
thors R.A. and J.L.). R.A. speaks Standard Southern British
English (SSBE) as L1, while J.L. speaks SSBE with minor in-
fluences from L1 Hong Kong Cantonese. Both speakers read
a list of 60 English monosyllabic words containing five vow-
els (the lexical sets KIT, DRESS, TRAP, STRUT, FACE [24]) in
a range of phonological environments that facilitate varying de-
grees of anticipatory and carry-over nasal coarticulation (e.g.
bin, mid, bend, bent; see [5, 6, 17]). For each device, each
speaker recorded six repetitions of the word list in randomized
order, presented one at a time in a fixed carrier phrase (‘I say
Figure 4: Baffle sketch with four highlighted measurements re-
sponsible for changing the shape of the front of the baffle.
for us’) via PowerPoint.
Recording was completed in Audacity (v3.7.0) with a con-
stant recording level. The icSpeech Nasality Microphone was
connected to the recording laptop via a USB connection, while
the two microphones of Nosey were connected via a Focusrite
Scarlett 2i2 audio interface and set to equal gains. We removed
the wind shields from the icSpeech microphones to eliminate
this possible confound from our comparison.
3.3. Data processing and analysis
Recordings were automatically transcribed and force-aligned
using the Penn Phonetics Lab Forced Aligner (P2FA) [25]. In-
tensity extraction for nasalance calculation was also automated,
using the speakr package [26] in R [27] and a Praat script
[28] written by author M.D. Intensity was extracted at the mid-
point of each vowel token, and nasalance was calculated using
Equation 1.
All statistical analyses were conducted in R. To investi-
gate nasalance differences across phonological environments
and recording systems, for each speaker we first carried out
linear regression with an interaction of phonological environ-
ment and system, and a control term for vowel.
Variables
were deviation-coded for comparison against the grand mean.
We used the emmeans package [29] to calculate the estimated
marginal means (EMMs) of nasalance for each combination of
system and environment. From these EMMs, we performed
pairwise comparisons of how each system captured differences
in nasalance between environments. All results were interpreted
at α = .05, after Bonferroni adjustment was applied to p-values
to control family-wise error rates. A significant non-zero esti-
mate would suggest that the two systems capture phonological
contrasts in nasalance at different magnitudes.
3.4. Results
Regression analyses for the two speakers showed significant dif-
ferences in nasalance between the two systems at the midpoint
2267

Figure 5: Baffle sketch with highlighted measurement control-
ling the distance of the cutout to the front of the baffle.
speaker_1
speaker_2
−0.025
0.000
0.025
−0.025
0.000
0.025
CVC − CVN
CVC − NVC
CVC − NVN
CVN − NVC
CVN − NVN
NVC − NVN
Difference of Differences (icSpeech − NOSEY)
Environment Pair
Figure 6: Pairwise comparison of selected phonological envi-
ronment pairs. Values below zero suggest a greater contrast
magnitude for Nosey; values above zero suggest a greater con-
trast magnitude for icSpeech. An error bar that does not cross
zero suggests a significant difference.
of the vowel (both p < .01). In both speakers, Nosey displays
consistently higher nasalance rates than the icSpeech nasome-
ter. For Speaker 1, the average difference between systems is
an increase of 22% when using Nosey (SE = 0.0030, t =
7.37, p < .01) and for Speaker 2, Nosey increases nasalance
by 21% (SE = 0.0033, t = 6.36, p < .01). This is likely
due to the manual aspect of microphone calibration for Nosey,
where gain settings must be set by the user. We discuss ways to
address this in Section 4.
In terms of differences in nasalance between phonological
environments for each system, neither speaker showed signifi-
cant differences between systems (all adjusted p > .1). Figure 6
shows means and confidence intervals for the magnitude of the
system differences across different phonological environments.
There is evidence of higher nasalance for Nosey in some condi-
tions, but the confidence intervals all cross zero. This indicates
that neither speaker displayed systematically different magni-
tudes of nasalance contrast between Nosey and the icSpeech
nasometer.
These findings indicate that raw nasalance rates from Nosey
are not strictly comparable to the icSpeech nasometer. That
said, under the conditions tested here, we can infer that Nosey
can be relied upon to represent magnitudes of contrasts in
nasalance across phonological environments comparable to
those reported using commercially available devices. Although
further work should explore a larger pool of speakers and take
time-varying nasalance rates into account, our results point to
Nosey’s viability as a flexible, cost-effective alternative to com-
mercial nasometry devices for capturing vowel nasalance across
phonological environments.
4. Discussion
4.1. Summary and limitations
We have outlined the development and release of open-source
hardware for acoustic nasalance data collection in a way that
is accessible and customizable. While a comprehensive valida-
tion of Nosey is beyond the scope of this paper, we show that
performance is comparable with one commercial system. Raw
nasalance is higher with Nosey, but the important comparison
of nasalance between phonological environments shows high
similarity between systems.
One possible source of the raw nasalance differences is
variation in microphone placement and microphone gain set-
tings. We did not conduct a comprehensive investigation of
these factors, but they can easily be addressed due to Nosey’s
flexible design. For example, microphone placement can be
modified by adapting the location of the microphone plate in
the FreeCAD model included in the repository. The system also
permits full specification of recording settings as it can be used
with any audio interface and/or hardware signal processing de-
vices. In future work, we plan to test specific parameter settings
that capture the precise patterns shown in commercial systems.
4.2. Future development
There are a number of areas for future investigation that are
enabled by the Nosey system. First, a productive experiment
would be a comparison of different microphone polar patterns.
While an omnidirectional pattern provides the flattest frequency
response, this makes microphone separation more challenging
and significantly increases the likelihood of cross-signal bleed.
In our evaluation, we used microphones with a cardioid polar
pattern, but it would be useful to compare this with hypercar-
dioid microphones or develop custom microphones with highly
directional characteristics. An advantage of our hardware plat-
form is that it facilitates the comparison of different micro-
phones, while keeping the rest of the hardware constant.
Second, it would be helpful to compare the effect of micro-
phone distance on nasalance calculations. In the above sections,
we provide guidance on the 3D model measurements that can
be changed to modify microphone placement. Third, we have
not evaluated the acoustical properties of different baffle materi-
als. For example, it may be desirable to test metal baffle plates,
which have a higher mass per unit area and should have better
acoustic isolation. This obviously comes at the added complex-
ity of fabricating metal components versus the relative ease of
3D printing plastic, so it is likely that plastic will remain the
most popular option. Finally, a valuable topic of investigation
would be a comprehensive comparison between Nosey and a
wider range of different commercial systems.
2268

5. Acknowledgements
This research was supported by UKRI/ESRC Doctoral Fel-
lowship ES/P000665/1 to M.D. and UKRI/AHRC fellowship
AH/Y002822/1 to S.K.
6. References
[1] J. Hajek, “Nasals and nasalization,” in Manual of Romance Pho-
netics and Phonology, C. Gabriel, R. Gess, and T. Meisenburg,
Eds.
Berlin: De Gruyter, 2022, pp. 215–241.
[2] J. J. Ohala, “Coarticulation and phonology,” Language and
Speech, vol. 36, no. 2, 3, pp. 155–170, 1993.
[3] S. Bongiovanni, “Acoustic investigation of anticipatory vowel
nasalization in a Caribbean and a non-Caribbean dialect of Span-
ish,” Linguistics Vanguard, vol. 7, no. 1, p. 20200008, 2021.
[4] H. Clumeck, “Patterns of soft palate movements in six languages,”
Journal of Phonetics, vol. 4, no. 4, pp. 337–351, 1976.
[5] C. Cunha, P. Hoole, D. Voit, J. Frahm, and J. Harrington, “The
physiological basis of the phonologization of vowel nasalization:
A real-time MRI analysis of American and Southern British En-
glish,” Journal of Phonetics, vol. 105, p. 101329, 2024.
[6] M. Pouplier, F. Rodriquez, J. J. H. Lo, R. Alderton, B. G. Evans,
E. Reinisch, and C. Carignan, “Language-specific and individual
variation in anticipatory nasal coarticulation: A comparative study
of American English, French, and German,” Journal of Phonetics,
vol. 107, p. 101365, 2024.
[7] P. S. Beddor, “A coarticulatory path to sound change,” Language,
vol. 85, no. 4, pp. 785–821, 2009.
[8] D. Crosby, “Oppa-Ng Gamsahamnita-Ng∼∼∼: The phonetics of
nasal cuteness in Korean aegyo,” Ph.D. dissertation, University of
South Carolina, 2023.
[9] J. Pittam, “Listeners’ evaluations of voice quality in Australian
English speakers,” Language and Speech, vol. 30, no. 2, pp. 99–
113, 1987.
[10] T. Waaramaa, P. Lukkarila, K. J¨arvinen, A. Geneid, and A.-M.
Laukkanen, “Impressions of personality from intentional voice
quality in Arabic-speaking and native Finnish-speaking listeners,”
Journal of Voice, vol. 35, no. 2, pp. 326.e21–326.e28, 2021.
[11] S. G. Fletcher, F. Mahfuzh, and H. Hendarmin, “Nasalance in the
speech of children with normal hearing and children with hearing
loss,” American Journal of Speech-Language Pathology, vol. 8,
no. 3, pp. 241–248, 1999.
[12] T. Watterson, S. C. McFarlane, and D. S. Wright, “The relation-
ship between nasalance and nasality in children with cleft palate,”
Journal of Communication Disorders, vol. 26, no. 1, pp. 13–28,
1993.
[13] W. Styler, “On the acoustical features of vowel nasality in English
and French,” The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America,
vol. 142, no. 4, pp. 2469–2482, 2017.
[14] C. Carignan, “A practical method of estimating the time-varying
degree of vowel nasalization from acoustic features,” The Journal
of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 149, no. 2, pp. 911–922,
2021.
[15] S. G. Fletcher, I. Sooudi, and S. D. Frost, “Quantitative and
graphic analysis of prosthetic treatment for “nasalance” in
speech,” Journal of Prosthetic Dentistry, vol. 32, no. 3, pp. 284–
291, 1974.
[16] C. Carignan, “Using ultrasound and nasalance to separate oral and
nasal contributions to formant frequencies of nasalized vowels,”
Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 143, no. 5, pp.
2588–2601, 2018.
[17] J. J. H. Lo, “Nasal coarticulation in Lombard speech,” Speech
Communication, p. 103205, 2025.
[18] K. Brunneg˚ard and J. van Doorn, “Normative data on nasalance
scores for Swedish as measured on the Nasometer: Influence
of dialect, gender, and age,” Clinical Linguistics & Phonetics,
vol. 23, no. 1, pp. 58–69, 2009.
[19] L. Lehes, R. Horn, P. Lippus, M. Padrik, P. Kasen˜omm, and
T. Jagom¨agi, “Normative nasalance scores for Estonian children,”
Clinical Linguistics & Phonetics, vol. 32, no. 11, pp. 1054–1066,
2018.
[20] G. De Boer and T. Bressmann, “Comparison of nasalance scores
obtained with the Nasometers 6200 and 6450,” The Cleft Palate
Craniofacial Journal, vol. 51, no. 1, pp. 90–97, 2014.
[21] T. Bressmann and B. H. Y. Tang, “Differences in nasalance scores
obtained with different nasometer headsets,” Clinical Linguistics
& Phonetics, pp. 1–11, 2024.
[22] J. Stewart and M. Kohlberger, “Earbuds: A method for analyzing
nasality in the field,” Language Documentation & Conservation,
vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 49–80, 20167.
[23] C. Carignan, “Ground-truth validation of the “earbuds method”
for measuring acoustic nasalance,” Journal of the Acoustical So-
ciety of America, vol. 156, no. 2, pp. 851–864, 2024.
[24] J. C. Wells, Accents of English: Volumes 1–3.
Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press, 1982.
[25] J. Yuan and M. Liberman, “Speaker identification on the SCOTUS
corpus,” The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol.
123, pp. 3878–3878, May 2008.
[26] S. Coretta, speakr:
A Wrapper for the Phonetic Software
’Praat’, 2025, R package version 3.2.4. [Online]. Available:
https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=speakr
[27] R Core Team, R: A Language and Environment for Statistical
Computing, R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna,
Austria, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://www.R-project.org/
[28] P. Boersma and D. Weenink, “Praat:
doing phonetics by
computer,” 2025. [Online]. Available: http://www.praat.org/
[29] R. V. Lenth,
emmeans:
Estimated Marginal Means,
aka
Least-Squares Means, 2025, R package version 1.10.7. [Online].
Available: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=emmeans
2269

