Study of vocal fold vibration using M-mode ultrasound: a proof of concept
Juliette Dindart1, Agn`es Rouxel1,2, Crystal Lin3, Trung Kien Bui1, Muriel Lefort4, Claire
Pillot-Loiseau5, Christophe Tr´esallet2, Fr´ed´erique Frouin1
1LITO, Inserm, Institut Curie, Universit´e Paris-Saclay, France
2Departments of Nuclear Medicine and Surgery, Avicenne Hospital, AP-HP, Universit´e Sorbonne
Paris Nord, France
3Mindray France SARL, France
4LIB, CNRS, Inserm, Sorbonne Universit´e, France
5LPP UMR 7018, CNRS, Sorbonne Nouvelle, France
Abstract
Ultrasound has recently been suggested as an alternative to la-
ryngoscopy for checking vocal fold movement after neck sur-
gery. We propose here to use M-mode ultrasound (MUS) to
study vocal fold vibration in the left and right hemilarynges.
MUS is acquired along a 1D line in each hemilarynx for about 5
seconds during phonation of a vowel. Post-processing has been
developed to estimate spatio-temporal maps of fundamental and
second harmonic frequencies. To validate our method, a total
of 108 recordings (MUS and voice) from 12 subjects with no
vocal pathology were acquired. We compared the fundamental
frequency obtained by MUS with that provided by voice analy-
sis. The median fundamental frequency was estimated by MUS
with high accuracy (y=0.997x+0.293 with r=0.999). In our cur-
rent trial, estimated frequencies are limited to 250 Hz. In future
work, frequency will be increased to 1 kHz to avoid aliasing ef-
fect at high pitch, and MUS will be tested on patients suffering
from vocal pathologies.
Index Terms: vocal fold vibration, M-mode ultrasound
1. Introduction
After thyroid surgery, due to the closeness of recurrent
nerve to the thyroid, 3 to 5 % of patients may experience recur-
rent nerve damage [1]. This damage can cause vocal fold pa-
ralysis (VFP). According to current recommendations, flexible
laryngoscopy should be performed before and after surgery to
check on the mobility of the vocal folds [2]. However this pro-
cedure isn’t always part of routine care due to patient discomfort
and practicality. The lack of compliance with recommendations
can lead to delayed or missed diagnosis of VFP. To overcome
the disadvantages of laryngoscopy, some teams have recently
proposed the detection of vocal fold palsy using dynamic trans-
laryngeal ultrasound, based on the acquisition of dynamic B-
mode (2D+t) images during free-breathing [3], [4], [5], [6], [7].
Even if the vocal folds are not always visible, their mobility can
be assessed through the observation of arytenoid cartilages to
which the vocal folds are connected. This ultrasound procedure
has proved useful for detecting VFP and could be routinely pro-
posed to patients, due to its low cost and non-invasive nature.
Conventional medical ultrasound systems can also acquire
M-mode data which involves recording the ultrasound signal
along a specific 1D line at a very high sampling rate. This mode
is frequently used in echocardiography (see for example [8],
[9]), but it has also proved useful to estimate the onset time of
deep muscle activity [10]. Thus M-mode is relevant when a high
temporal resolution is crucial.
FIGURE 1 – Experimental setup : simultaneous ultrasound ac-
quisition and voice recording
For this study, considering dynamic translaryngeal ultra-
sound as a relevant clinical tool for assessing vocal fold mobi-
lity, we hypothesized that the use of M-mode ultrasound could
complement this examination by studying vocal folds vibration.
In this initial study, we aim to evaluate the vocal fundamental
frequency from M-mode ultrasound. To validate this measure-
ment, audio recordings were simultaneously acquired. Our first
results demonstrate the interest of M-mode ultrasound as a new
approach to evaluate vocal folds vibration.
2. Methods
2.1. Translaryngeal ultrasound
All the examinations were performed using a TE7 (Min-
dray) point of care ultrasound system with a L12-3RCs linear
array transducer, having a frequency range between 3 and 12.8
MHz. The subjects were lying on their back with their neck
slightly extended (see Figure 1). The M-mode acquisition (see
below 2.2 for its definition) was combined with B-mode to make
the positioning of the 1D line easier. Probe was positioned to re-
veal the right (then the left) hemilarynx, with vocal fold, false
ventricular fold and arytenoid cartilage.
Then subjects were asked to hold a vowel (either /a/, /i/,
or /u/) or the consonant /z/ for at least five seconds, and the
practitioner moves the probe to follow the phonation-induced
displacement of anatomical structures.
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
315 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2091

FIGURE 2 – Example of B-mode (top) and M-mode (bottom)
images, with M-mode recorded along a vertical line (in blue
on the B-mode image) ; the M-mode part represents ultrasound
signal values along the vertical line according to time, in the
horizontal direction. The signal evolution over time correspon-
ding to the red point on the B-mode image is displayed along
the red line in the M-mode zone.
2.2. M-mode recording
In ultrasound, B-mode images are 2D and videos are dyna-
mic 2D images that are acquired at a frame rate of 30 images
per second. Using M-mode, it is possible to largely increase the
acquisition rate since the ultrasound signal is recorded along a
single 1D line, over a length varying from 3.5 to 5 cm, depen-
ding on the subject’s anatomy. B-mode ultrasound provides a
2D image with J rows and K columns, while M-mode is a spe-
cific mode that acquires the signal along a single column. For
B-mode, the acquisition process is repeated over time for each
of the columns. For M-mode, K=1, so time resolution can be
considerably increased (by up to two orders of magnitude). In
our device, the signal is acquired at a rate of 500 points per
second (Fr=500 Hz). Figure 2 illustrates an extract of a B-
mode/M-mode recording. The recordings lasted between 5 and
10 seconds during vowel phonation.
2.3. M-mode processing
Figure 3 illustrates the vibration process captured by the M-
mode ultrasound. Let s(j,t ) be the M-mode ultrasound signal,
measured at position j on the vertical line displayed on the B-
mode image, at time t. Let vjt(τn) be the vector of N conse-
cutive time values ofs(j,t ), centered at timet andV jt(fk) the
Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) of vjt(τn) :
Vjt(fk) =F (vjt(τn)), (1)
whereF is the DFT operator. The peak frequency f0 at which
|Vjt(fk)| is maximum, over all frequencies, provides the esti-
mation of the mean fundamental frequency. It is computed for
each locationj and timet, and is thus notedf jt
0 .
Considering a sliding time window of 30 ms, a parame-
tric map K is computed as the collection of f jt
0 values for
each pair (j,t ). To reduce the impact of low frequencies, which
can generate noise in parametric maps, a frequency window
[fmin,fmax] was defined to constrain the peak frequency f jt
0
to belong to this interval. The same procedure was applied to
FIGURE 3 – Vibration process as captured by the M-mode si-
gnal,s(j,t ) (top), and its Discrete Fourier Transform (bottom).
The peak frequency is equal to 120 Hz.
estimate the second harmonic mapK2, when Shannon-Nyquist
conditions were valid, i.e. when the fundamental frequency was
below 125 Hz. Typical values offmin were between 10 and 30
Hz for the calculation ofK and between 130 and 160 Hz for the
calculation ofK2 (Figure 4),fmax being equal to 250 Hz in all
cases.
The number of points N defined for estimating the funda-
mental frequencyf jt
0 was chosen to be 500. Finally a temporal
window [tmin,tmax] and a spatial window [ jmin,jmax] were
defined to robustly compute the median frequency on each pa-
rametric map. This value is further noted f U S
0 forK. Figure 5
is an illustration of two parametric maps,K andK2 associated
with one M-mode ultrasound record.
3. Experimental validation
3.1. Database
To test the feasibility of the M-mode ultrasound for asses-
sing laryngeal vibrations, a database of 108 recordings from
twelve subjects (8 males, and 4 females), was compiled (see
Table 1). Ages ranged between 23 and 59 years. All subjects
had no known vocal pathology and had not undergone cervical
surgery.
3.2. V oice recordings and analysis
To validate the fundamental frequency estimation f0 from
ultrasound, simultaneously to ultrasound acquisition, the sub-
ject’s voice was recorded using Octa-Capture UA 1010 sound-
card (Roland) with C520 condenser microphone (AKG) at a
sampling rate of 45 kHz. As seen on Figure 1, the subject was
316

FIGURE 4 – Discrete Fourier Transform of the larynx vibration
captured by the M-mode. The second harmonic is visible at 237
Hz with window filtering to keep only frequencies> 150 Hz.
TABLE 1 – Composition of the database according to the
sounds held and the sex of the subjects
Sex /a/ /i/ /u/ /z/ Total
Males (8) 26 22 25 4 77
Females (4) 13 8 8 2 31
Total (12) 39 30 33 6 108
lying down and recorded simultaneously with the microphone
and M-mode ultrasound while maintaining a prolonged vowel
vocalization.
V oice parameters were then extracted from the voice recor-
dings using Praat software [11], which provided the time evo-
lution of the fundamental frequency ( f0). Spectrograms were
also extracted from the recordings with Parselmouth [12], the
python extension of Praat software. As a pitch jump effect can
be observed in the spectrogram and can induce biased values of
the mean fundamental frequency [13], this value was replaced
by the median fundamental frequency. It is further noted f V A
0 ,
the superscript V A referring to V oice Analysis.
4. Results
4.1. Spatio-temporal visualization of vibrations
The spatio-temporal maps K andK2, shown in Figure 5,
illustrate the process of vibration in the larynx region, defined
by the vertical line on the B-mode ultrasound. The maps show
the time evolution along the horizontal axis and the spatial va-
riations along this vertical line of the fundamental frequency
(K) and of the second harmonic (K2). For this example, the me-
FIGURE 5 – Spatio-temporal maps showing fundamental fre-
quency (K : top) and second harmonic (K2 : bottom). Colors
indicate frequency values in Hz. The horizontal axis corres-
ponds to the temporal axis while the vertical axis corresponds
to the 1D spatial axis (the vertical line defined in the larynx on
the B-mode image).
FIGURE 6 – Scatter plot of medianf0 values issued from voice
recordings and M-mode ultrasound.
317

dian values are 118 Hz on the fundamental harmonic map and
237 Hz on the second harmonic map, which corresponds to the
expected value of 2.f U S
0 . Spatial homogeneity of frequencies
on the line drawn along the larynx seems to be higher than the
temporal homogeneity where the temporal drift is clearly per-
ceptible on theK andK2 maps. This drift is coherent between
the two maps, showing the relevance of our M-mode ultrasound
approach. From the maps, we can also notice that the estima-
tion of frequencies is out of the bounds retained for the display
(blue points on the maps), particularly when the distance to the
ultrasound probe is large, and the attenuation of the ultrasound
signal is high.
4.2. Comparison of M-mode ultrasound to reference value
Figure 6 illustrates the high similarity between the median
fundamental frequency as estimated by the ultrasound M-mode
approach and the one estimated by the analysis of voice recor-
ding.
The linear regression betweenf U S
0 andf V A
0 is given by :
f U S
0 = 0.997.f V A
0 + 0.293 (2)
with a correlation coefficient of 0.999.
The difference between the two types of measurement is
less than 2 Hz in 92% of recordings, the highest difference being
7 Hz.
5. Discussion
In this work, we explored the use of M-mode ultrasound
as a non-invasive method for analyzing vocal fold vibration.
This technique captures high speed motion of reflectors, en-
abling highly temporal visualization of vibration in the laryn-
geal region defined by a 1D line. The frequency maps generated
provide a spatio-temporal representation off U S
0 variations over
time, and reveal patterns of vibration consistency.
Comparison between the fundamental frequency measured
with M-mode ultrasound and the one obtained by simultaneous
voice recording demonstrated a high degree of similarity bet-
ween the two methods.
In the setup used for the current study, the sampling rateFr
was 500 Hz. On high pitched voices, for whichf0>250 Hz, we
were confronted with aliasing effects. For example, in the case
illustrated in Figure 7, the mean fundamental frequency, f U S
0 ,
was found to be 220 Hz, following the M-mode ultrasound. Ho-
wever, the voice analysis shows a fundamental frequency f V A
0
equal to 280 Hz. The peak found at 220 Hz is clearly the impact
of aliasing. Indeed, the spectral folding should beFr− 280 Hz,
i.e. 220 Hz. This occurred in 4 recordings (2 /i/ for a female sub-
ject, 2 /u/ for another female subject). These acquisitions were
excluded from the database. However, in all 4 cases, the spectral
aliasing was correctly estimated. Thus, for high pitched voices,
due to the Shannon-Nyquist theorem, there may be ambiguities
in the estimation of the fundamental frequency, using M-mode
ultrasound.
Thus, the next step is increasing the sampling rateFr of the
M-mode ultrasound acquisition up to 2000 Hz, which will al-
low an estimation of frequencies up to 1000 Hz. This next step
is crucial for obtaining accurate values and avoiding the alia-
sing effect on the first harmonics. As a result, we will study a
wider scope of voices, and also assess the higher harmonics.
New acquisitions at a sampling rate of 2000 Hz are underway,
and preliminary results confirm the interest of this improved ac-
quisition.
FIGURE 7 – Example of an aliasing effect obtained for a high-
pitched voice, at 220 Hz. Corresponding spectrogram of the re-
cord is shown at the bottom of the figure, showing a fundamental
frequency of 280 Hz.
By improving the proposed technique, M-mode ultrasound
combined with B-mode ultrasound could provide a low-cost and
non invasive approach for studying vocal fold dysfunction, in-
cluding vibration and mobility. It could provide an alternative
tool to laryngoscopy before and after neck surgery.
6. Acknowledgments
The authors thank the French National Research Agency
(ANR) for supporting the current project (VOCALISE, ANR-
22-CE19-0035)
The Interspeech 2025 organisers would like to thank ISCA
and the organizing committees of past Interspeech conferences
for their help and for kindly providing the previous version of
this template.
7. References
[1] M. Heikkinen, K. M ¨akinen, M. Qvarnstr ¨om, T. Kemppainen,
H. L¨opp¨onen, and J. K¨arkk¨ainen, “Incidence, risk factors, and na-
tural outcome of vocal fold paresis in 920 thyroid operations with
routine pre- and postoperative laryngoscopic evaluation,” World
Journal of Surgery, vol. 43, no. 9, pp. 2228–2234, 2019.
[2] M. Steurer, C. Passler, D. M. Denk, B. Schneider, B. Niederle, and
W. Bigenzahn, “Advantages of recurrent laryngeal nerve identifi-
cation in thyroidectomy and parathyroidectomy and the impor-
tance of preoperative and postoperative laryngoscopic examina-
tion in more than 1000 nerves at risk,” The Laryngoscope, vol.
112, no. 1, pp. 124–133, January 2002.
[3] C.-P. Wang, T.-C. Chen, T.-L. Yang, C.-N. Chen, C.-F. Lin, and
P.-J. Lou, “Transcutaneous ultrasound for evaluation of vocal fold
movement in patients with thyroid disease,” European Journal of
Radiology, vol. 81, no. 3, pp. e288–e291, March 2012.
[4] K.-P. Wong, K.-P. Au, S. Lam, and B. H.-H. Lang, “Lessons
learned after 1000 cases of transcutaneous laryngeal ultrasound
318

(tlusg) with laryngoscopic validation : Is there a role of tlusg in
patients indicated for laryngoscopic examination before thyroi-
dectomy ?”Thyroid, vol. 27, no. 1, pp. 88–94, January 2017.
[5] D. Carneiro-Pla, B. S. Miller, S. M. Wilhelm, M. Milas, P. G. Gau-
ger, and M. S. Cohen, “Feasibility of surgeon-performed transcu-
taneous vocal cord ultrasonography in identifying vocal cord mo-
bility : A multi-institutional experience,” Surgery, vol. 156, no. 6,
pp. 1597–1604, December 2014.
[6] P. Knyazeva, V . Makarin, B. Seeliger, R. Chernikov, I. Slept-
sov, and A. Semenov, “Transcutaneous laryngeal ultrasonogra-
phy (tlus) as an alternative to direct flexible laryngoscopy (dfl)
in the perioperative evaluation of the vocal cord mobility in thy-
roid surgery,” Langenbeck’s Archives of Surgery, vol. 403, no. 8,
pp. 1015–1020, December 2018.
[7] D. S. Lazard, H. Bergeret-Cassagne, M. Lefort, L. Leenhardt,
G. Russ, and F. Frouin, “Transcutaneous laryngeal ultrasonogra-
phy for laryngeal immobility diagnosis in patients with voice di-
sorders after thyroid/parathyroid surgery,” World Journal of Sur-
gery, vol. 42, no. 7, pp. 2102–2108, July 2018.
[8] S. Carerj, A. Micari, A. Trono, G. Giordano, M. Cerrito, C. Zito,
F. Luzza, S. Coglitore, F. Arrigo, and G. Oreto, “Anatomical m-
mode : An old–new technique,” Echocardiography : A Journal of
Cardiovascular Ultrasound and Allied Techniques, vol. 20, no. 4,
pp. 357–361, May 2003.
[9] P. Ballo, A. Bocelli, A. Motto, and S. Mondillo, “Concordance
between m-mode, pulsed tissue doppler, and colour tissue doppler
in the assessment of mitral annulus systolic excursion in normal
subjects,” European Journal of Echocardiography, vol. 9, no. 6,
pp. 748–753, May 2008.
[10] A. V . Dieterich, C. M. Pickard, L. E. Deshon, G. R. Strauss,
W. Gibson, P. Davey, and J. McKay, “M-mode ultrasound used
to detect the onset of deep muscle activity,” Journal of Electro-
myography and Kinesiology , vol. 25, no. 2, pp. 224–231, April
2015.
[11] P. Boersma and D. Weenink, “Praat : doing phonetics by computer
[computer program],” 2025, version 6.4.27, retrieved 27 January
2025 from http://www.praat.org/.
[12] Y . Jadoul, B. Thompson, and B. de Boer, “Introducing Parsel-
mouth : A Python interface to Praat,” Journal of Phonetics ,
vol. 71, pp. 1–15, 2018.
[13] R. Vaysse, C. Ast ´esano, and J. Farinas, “Performance analysis
of various fundamental frequency estimation algorithms in the
context of pathological speech,”Journal of the Acoustical Society
of America, vol. 152, no. 5, pp. 3091–3101, 2022.
319
