warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Transcribing Oral History Recordings Using the Transcription Portal
Christoph Draxler1, Julian P¨omp1, Henk van den Heuvel2, Fabio Ardolino3, Arjan van Hessen4
1Institute of Phonetics and Speech Processing, LMU Munich, Germany
2Centre for Language Studies, Radboud University, Netherlands
3Dipartimento di Filologia e Critica delle Letterature Antiche e Moderne, Siena University, Italy
4Utrecht University, Netherlands
draxler|j.poemp@phonetik.uni-muenchen.de, H.vandenHeuvel@let.ru.nl,
fabio.ardolino@unisi.it, A.J.vanHessen@uu.nl
Abstract
The Transcription Portal is a web-based service for multi-
lingual orthographic transcription of speech, notably Oral His-
tory interviews. It is targeted at non-technical users: it provides
a simple and intuitive GUI, supports several languages, and the
workflow is pre-configured. Currently, the workflow consists
of three steps: 1) automatic speech recognition, 2) manual cor-
rection of the transcript, 3) data export. Summarization and
translation are planned. We demonstrate the portal on a set of
historical Italian interviews on the Ravensbr¨uck concentration
camps.
Index Terms: Oral History, multilingual speech recognition,
user interface
1. Transcription Portal
1.1. Introduction
A large body of material in Oral History (OH) consists of in-
terviews – often in highly dialectal speech without standard or-
thography, in a more or less formal style, and recorded in un-
documented locations or noisy environments and on analog me-
dia. Where a standard orthography is available, word error rates
> 50% are typical even for the most advanced ASR systems;
for dialects without orthography, performance is even worse.
For reliable transcriptions, the results of automatic speech
recognition (ASR) have to be checked manually using transcrip-
tion editors. However, most such editors were designed for lin-
guistic or phonetic speech data, i. e. for multi-tier annotation of
relatively short recordings, and as standalone applications with
a steep learning curve. In other domains, e. g. journalism or
market research, transcription editors with an easy-to-use UI
were developed, but they often lack the necessary features for
scientific speech processing, i. e. word-based time-alignment or
access to external signal processing tools or services.
The Transcription Portal makes available current speech
recognition technology in a seamless combination with manual
transcription to non-technical users. Thus, it provides a sim-
ple GUI based on a table metaphor with drag&drop functional-
ity. Further key features are giving users the choice of service
providers, and access to innovative SLP and NLP services.
1.2. Walkthrough of the Transcription Portal UI
To
use
the
Transcription
Portal
open
https:
//clarin.phonetik.uni-muenchen.de/apps/
TranscriptionPortal/.
Users must authenticate as
members of an academic research institution. The Transcription
Portal displays a 1-2-3 Quickstart page (fig. 1).
1. Drag the audio files from the local file system to the Quick-
start page and check the tasks from the workflow (fig. 2).
Figure 1: 1-2-3 Quickstart page showing the sequence of tasks
in the workflow
Figure 2: View the uploaded files and select the workflow tasks
by setting the check marks in the column heads
2. Select the input language (currently, Dutch, English, Ger-
man, and Italian are supported) and the ASR provider; both
commercial and academic providers are available (fig. 3).
Click on the provider logo to display a synopsis of the main
terms of use and privacy policy.
3. Click on ”3. Start Processing” to upload the files and start
the selected tasks. A turning cog wheel icon in the table cell
shows that this task is currently running, a check mark indi-
cates that it has finished successfully (fig. 4).
4. Click on a check mark icon to display a preview of the out-
come of the current task, e. g. the raw transcript as generated
by the ASR (fig. 5). The preview formats available include
plain text, CSV, TextGrid, SRT, VTT, and a JSON format.
5. If manual transcription has been selected as part of the work-
flow, the transcription editor Octra opens inside the window,
showing the current audio waveform and transcript (fig. 6).
6. Export the transcript to the local file system: select the de-
sired output format and click on the download button (fig. 7).
Currently, the Portal uses locally installed versions of whis-
per and Fraunhofer ASR, Radboud University’s ASR web ser-
vice, plus limited versions of Google, IBM and EML ASR. Au-
tomatic word alignment via the MAUS web service is an option
in the manual correction of the transcript, or as a separate step
in the workflow [1].
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
300

Figure 3: Select both the language of the audio recording and
the ASR provider
Figure 4: View current state of a task
2. Italian interviews
2.1. Content of the recordings
The recordings used in this study are part of the oral archive
compiled by Anna Maria Bruzzone, a secondary school teacher
and independent historian, whose work focused extensively on
memory studies, OH, and female political deportation during
the Nazi regime. The specific interviews considered here were
conducted in 1976, using a portable cassette recorder, during
visits to the private homes of the interviewees. The corpus in-
cludes four interviews, featuring five Italian women who sur-
vived the Ravensbr¨uck concentration camp. The total duration
of the recorded material is approximately 18 hours of spoken
discourse, which comprises detailed autobiographical accounts,
personal reflections, and valuable linguistic and communicative
insights into the experience of deportation and internment [2].
2.2. Digitization
The digitization process was carried out by the Centro di
Sonologia Computazionale (CSC) at the University of Padua.
Each analog tape was digitized to preservation master files in
uncompressed .wav format (96000 Hz, 24-bit), alongside dig-
ital images of the original media and detailed metadata docu-
menting the technical specifications and the transfer process.
2.3. Availabilty
CLARIN ERIC has featured a specific resource family
page for OH recordings:
https://www.clarin.eu/
resource-families/oral-history-corpora.
The corpora of interviews on this page have been selected
Figure 5: Preview raw ASR-generated transcript (here: SRT-
format)
Figure 6: Manual correction of the transcript using the embed-
ded transcription editor
Figure 7: Final export of transcripts to different formats
with the aim of offering the possibility to compare data
that covers similar topics [3].
The digitized Ravensbr¨uck
OH corpus is accessible through The Language Archive
(TLA), hosted by the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguis-
tics in Nijmegen:
https://archive.mpi.nl/tla/
islandora/object/tla%3A1839_76375cde_a68e_
4c87_8539_513c3a63e308.
3. Future Work
The Transcription Portal is further developed in the ATRIUM
project (https://atrium-research.eu/).
In this
project we will add transformer-based ASR services to replace
commercially based ASR engines now provided in the portal,
and we will support additional languages (e. g. Spanish and
Czech). We will include improved speaker diarization facili-
ties by comparing standard pyannote whisper solutions with e.
g. NVIDIA Nemo. Further additions will include translation of
transcripts (typically into English) and summarization, all based
on open source (large) language models.
4. References
[1] T. Kisler, F. Schiel, and H. Sloetjes, “Signal Processing Via Web
Services: The Use Case Webmaus,” in Proceedings Digital Hu-
manities, Hamburg, 2012, pp. 30–34.
[2] S. Calamai, S. Scagliola, F. Ardolino, C. Draxler, A. van Hessen,
and H. van den Heuvel, “Ravensbr¨uck Interviews: How to Curate
Legacy Data to Make it CLARIN Compliant,” in Selected Papers
from the CLARIN Annual Conference 2021, ser. Link¨oping Elec-
tronic Conference Proceedings 189, 2022.
[3] F. de Jong,
D. Van Uytvanck,
F. Frontini,
A. van den
Bosch,
D.
Fiˇser,
and
A.
Witt,
“The
European
Research
Infrastructure CLARIN, Today and Tomorrow,” in CLARIN: The
Infrastructure for Language Resources, ser. Digital Linguistics.
De Gruyter,
2022,
vol. 1,
pp. 31–57. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1515/9783110767377
301

