Unsupervised Rhythm and Voice Conversion to Improve ASR on Dysarthric
Speech
Karl El Hajal1,2, Enno Hermann1, Sevada Hovsepyan1, Mathew Magimai.-Doss1
1Idiap Research Institute, CH-1920 Martigny, Switzerland
2EPFL, ´Ecole polytechnique f´ed´erale de Lausanne, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland
{karl.elhajal,enno.hermann,sevada.hovsepyan,mathew}@idiap.ch
Abstract
Automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems struggle with
dysarthric speech due to high inter-speaker variability and slow
speaking rates.
To address this, we explore dysarthric-to-
healthy speech conversion for improved ASR performance. Our
approach extends the Rhythm and Voice (RnV) conversion
framework by introducing a syllable-based rhythm modeling
method suited for dysarthric speech. We assess its impact on
ASR by training LF-MMI models and fine-tuning Whisper on
converted speech. Experiments on the Torgo corpus reveal that
LF-MMI achieves significant word error rate reductions, espe-
cially for more severe cases of dysarthria, while fine-tuning
Whisper on converted data has minimal effect on its perfor-
mance. These results highlight the potential of unsupervised
rhythm and voice conversion for dysarthric ASR. Code avail-
able at: https://github.com/idiap/RnV.
Index Terms: Rhythm Modeling, Voice Conversion, Unsuper-
vised, Dysarthric Speech Recognition
1. Introduction
Motor speech impairments like dysarthria can significantly hin-
der communication by affecting multiple aspects of speech pro-
duction, including rhythm and articulation [1].
As a result,
Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) systems trained on typ-
ical speech often struggle to process dysarthric speech accu-
rately [2]. This creates a need for specialized ASR systems that
accommodate the unique speech patterns of individuals with
dysarthria. However, developing such systems is challenging
for two main reasons.
First, dysarthric speech deviates sig-
nificantly from typical speech patterns, and exhibits substan-
tial inter-speaker variability. Speech recognition models par-
ticularly struggle with the slower speaking rates common in
dysarthria. Second, the scarcity of dysarthric speech data com-
plicates development, as collecting speech samples can be phys-
ically demanding for individuals with dysarthria.
Recent studies have explored promising avenues such as
the use of synthesis and conversion methods for data aug-
mentation and dysarthric-to-healthy speech conversion [3, 4,
5].
Among these, unsupervised techniques leveraging Self-
Supervised Learning (SSL) speech representations have demon-
strated promise due to their zero-shot capabilities and low data
requirements.
In previous work, we presented an unsuper-
vised Rhythm and Voice (RnV) conversion framework [6] that
modifies dysarthric speech to resemble healthy speech, show-
ing promise in improving ASR performance.
Indeed, eval-
uations on the Torgo corpus [7] showed that rhythm conver-
sion was particularly beneficial for speakers with more se-
vere dysarthria, improving ASR performance on models trained
solely on healthy speech. While RnV enables unsupervised and
Input
Speech
SSL
Encoder
Rhythm
Converter
kNN-VC
Vocoder
Converted
Speech
Source
Rhythm
Model
Target
Rhythm
Model
Target
Unit
Database
Figure 1: RnV Framework Overview
data-efficient dysarthric speech conversion, the rhythm model-
ing approach used was not specifically adapted to dysarthric
speech, resulting in imprecise segmentation and rhythm mod-
ification. Furthermore, while ASR performance improved, it
remained unsatisfactory, and the impact of training or adapting
ASR models on converted speech was not explored.
To address these limitations, this paper explores a syllable-
based rhythm modeling approach aimed at improving segmen-
tation and adaptation for dysarthric speech.
We investigate
the impact of training and adapting ASR models on converted
speech by training an LF-MMI [8] model and fine-tuning Whis-
per [9], providing a comparative analysis of their performance.
2. Background
The RnV framework (Fig. 1) converts dysarthric speech into
healthy speech in unsupervised fashion by leveraging properties
of self-supervised speech representations [6]. Rhythm conver-
sion is achieved through a modified version of Urhythmic [10],
replacing soft units with discrete speech representations and ex-
tending the any-to-one conversion approach to any-to-any using
a general-purpose vocoder. This method first segments speech
into three types: silences, sonorants, and obstruents. This is
done by clustering discrete units from a speech dataset into 100
centroids, which are then hierarchically grouped. The group
with the greatest overlap with silences is labeled as Silence, the
one most associated with voiced sections as Sonorants, and the
remaining type as Obstruents. Segmentation is performed by
comparing each discrete unit to the centroids and computing
its log-probability of belonging to each class. A dynamic pro-
gramming algorithm then merges consecutive units into longer
segments, with a parameter γ controlling segment length. This
segmentation enables the calculation of speaking rate and dura-
tion distributions for each speech type per speaker. These can
be used to modify rhythm through time-stretching, either at the
utterance level (global) or at the level of individual segments
and speech types (fine-grained). Voice conversion, on the other
hand, employs kNN-VC [11] to map the phonetic content of the
source speaker to the closest matching units of a target speaker.
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2760
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2069

3. Methods
In this work, we extend the rhythm conversion module of the
RnV framework by combining the unsupervised clustering-
based method with syllable segmentation and modeling. We
further train and adapt ASR models on the converted speech
to assess more thoroughly whether conversion helps improve
recognition performance.
3.1. Syllable-based rhythm modeling
Syllables are fundamental to rhythm modeling in speech.
Indeed, analyzing syllable durations helps characterize a
speaker’s unique rhythmic patterns [12]. While time-aligned
transcriptions are ideal for precise syllable segmentation and
speaking rate calculation, alternative methods are needed when
such transcriptions are unavailable.
Prior work using the
Urhythmic method estimates speaking rate by segmenting and
counting sonorants per second, as sonorants serve as syl-
lable nuclei [6]. However, obtaining precise sonorant seg-
ments proved challenging due to the unique characteristics of
dysarthric speech. To address this, we aim to improve rhythm
modeling by directly obtaining syllable segments in an unsuper-
vised manner.
The importance of syllable-level analysis, particularly seg-
mentation and feature extraction, has been demonstrated in re-
cent research on dysarthric speech detection [13]. Indeed, such
approaches mirror human auditory processing, where sound is
initially decomposed into frequencies by the cochlea and subse-
quently segmented into syllables by the cortex. Inspired by this
work, we adopt a segmentation approach which leverages theta
oscillations and the sonority envelope [14]. This method seg-
ments syllables based on either syllable onsets (valleys in the
envelope) or syllable nuclei (typically vowels, represented by
peaks in the envelope). By extracting peak and valley times-
tamps, we can define syllable segments as either valley-to-
valley or peak-to-peak intervals.
While effective, this method struggles with noisy speech, as
noise can introduce false peaks and valleys. Given the presence
of noise in the data which we will be using for evaluation, we
incorporate a filtering step using the initial discrete unit clus-
tering method. This allows us to ignore segments that fall out-
side speech regions. Specifically, we define speech segments
as the combined obstruent and sonorant regions, while silence
segments are classified as non-speech. This segmentation acts
as a form of Voice Activity Detection (VAD), helping to dis-
tinguish speech from noise. In preliminary experiments, we
observed that this approach was more robust than traditional
VAD methods in identifying non-speech regions in the context
of dysarthric speech. Any peak or valley within a non-speech
region is discarded, improving segmentation accuracy. The seg-
mentation steps are visualized in Figure 2.
After filtering, we focus on syllable nuclei (peaks), as they
are less prone to false positives. By measuring peak-to-peak
syllable durations for each speaker, we establish two rhythm
modeling and conversion approaches:
Global: We calculate the syllables-per-second rate for each
speaker to determine a global speaking rate. To convert a source
speaker’s utterance to a target speaker’s rhythm, we time-stretch
the discrete units at the utterance level using the ratio of their
speaking rates.
Fine-Grained:
Inspired by the fine-grained Urhythmic ap-
proach, we fit syllable durations to a gamma distribution, creat-
ing a speaker-specific duration model. To convert rhythm, we
map each source syllable segment’s duration to the target distri-
~
I
tried
to
tell
people
in
the
community
~
Transcription
Clustering-based Segmentation
Waveform
Silence
Obstruent
Sonorant
Computed Peaks and Valleys
Waveform
Envelope
Peaks
Valleys
Filtered Peaks
Waveform
Envelope
Filtered Peaks
Figure 2: Segmentation steps for Torgo speaker M02 pronounc-
ing ’I tried to tell people in the community’.
bution using the Cumulative Distribution Function (CDF) and
the Percent Point Function (PPF). This ensures that each seg-
ment’s duration maintains its probability rank within the target
distribution, preserving natural rhythm characteristics.
3.2. ASR adaptation
In this study, we investigate whether speech conversion en-
hances ASR performance by training and adapting models on
the converted data. To achieve this, we explore two approaches:
first, we train LF-MMI ASR models from scratch, and second,
we fine-tune a pre-trained Whisper model originally trained on
healthy speech. A detailed explanation of these methodologies
is provided in the following section.
4. Experimental Setup
4.1. RnV implementation
We implement the framework similarly to [6].
We use the
6th layer of WavLM Large [15] as our speech representa-
tion, and reconstruct waveforms using a pre-trained HiFi-GAN
V1 vocoder [16] checkpoint trained using the pre-matched
paradigm from [11]. For the clustering-based segmentation, we
use γ = 3. For kNN-VC, we find the k = 8 nearest units calcu-
lated using the cosine distance, and apply weighted averaging
to the obtained units.
4.2. Datasets
Our evaluation is conducted using the Torgo corpus [7], which
contains voice samples from 15 participants:
8 individuals
with dysarthria (stemming from either Cerebral Palsy or Amy-
otrophic Lateral Sclerosis) and 7 control subjects.
Speakers
with dysarthria are classified into four severity levels: severe,
moderately severe, moderate, and mild. The collected samples
encompass 725 sentences and 2,340 isolated words. We use
both the recordings from the head-mounted and array micro-
phones. For the target speech in our conversion process, we use
the LJSpeech database [17], which features 24 hours of single-
speaker English audiobook narration. We process all audio sam-
ples by standardizing them to 16kHz, which is WavLM’s ex-
pected input sampling rate, and normalizing volume levels to
-20dB.
2761

F01
M01
M02
M04
M05
F03
F04
M03
FC01
FC02
FC03
MC01
MC02
MC03
MC04
Speaker
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
Speaking Rate
Speaking Rates by Speaker and Severity
severe
mod-severe
moderate
mild
control
Figure 3: Global speaking rates computed using the Syllable-
based method for each Torgo speaker, categorized by severity.
4.3. ASR experiments
We use a Leave-One-Speaker-Out approach, where to evaluate
the performance on each speaker, we train/fine-tune each model
on the data from all other speakers and test on the remaining
speaker. To evaluate the impact of different conversion setups
on ASR performance, we conduct experiments with two differ-
ent, existing models. The proposed conversion methods could
also be combined with other ASR models for potential better
absolute performance, but we emphasized openly available im-
plementations in this work.
LF-MMI: We train factorized time-delay neural network
[18] acoustic models with the sequence-discriminative LF-MMI
loss [8]. The models are trained in Kaldi [19] using the train-
ing recipe from [20], i.e. first training HMM-GMM ASR mod-
els and then using their alignments for LF-MMI training with
speed perturbation (factors 0.9, 1.0, 1.1). The only difference is
that we do not use i-vectors for simplicity. Also following [20],
when decoding isolated words a grammar restricts the output
to one of the possible options, for sentences a bigram language
model is trained on all sentence data.
Whisper: We fine-tune the pre-trained Whisper base model
[9], which comprises 74M parameters. It is pre-trained on a di-
verse multilingual dataset for generalization across languages,
and incorporates a multitask learning framework which includes
transcription, translation, and language identification. It em-
ploys a sequence-to-sequence approach, where audio inputs are
converted into log-Mel spectrograms and processed by a con-
volutional encoder to extract features. These features are then
passed through a transformer-based encoder, which captures
long-range dependencies. A transformed decoder generates text
tokens autoregressively, conditioned on the encoded audio rep-
resentations. For fine-tuning, we use a batch size of 32, a learn-
ing rate α = 1e −5, and early stopping with patience set to 5
epochs. There is no additional language model.
ASR performance is assessed using the word error rate
(WER). First, we present the speaker-averaged WER results for
Torgo speakers with dysarthria across all conversion setups. We
then plot per-speaker WER results for selected setups for a more
detailed analysis. Following the approach in [20], we report the
results separately for isolated words and sentences, as each sce-
nario presents distinct challenges.
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
Duration (s)
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
Probability Density
Syllable Gamma Distributions
M02 (shape=4.88, scale=0.10)
MC02 (shape=6.26, scale=0.04)
Figure 4: Comparison of syllable gamma duration distributions
for control speaker MC02 and dysarthric speaker M02.
Table 1: WER Results averaged over Dysarthric Torgo speakers
for all conversion setups
LF-MMI
Fine-tuned Whisper
Experiment
Isolated
Sentences
Isolated
Sentences
Original
44.8
31.2
48.35
29.62
Vocoded
43.3
24.8
50.66
32.38
kNN-VC
37.6
18.4
53.18
34.53
Urhythmic (Fine)
60.0
26.2
54.67
37.21
Urhythmic (Global)
42.6
20.6
49.51
30.09
Syllable (Fine)
46.5
20.6
60.01
33.94
Syllable (Global)
43.8
19.4
50.93
31.81
Urhythmic (Fine) + kNN-VC
52.1
17.9
56.26
34.10
Urhythmic (Global) + kNN-VC
38.4
15.9
51.19
39.49
Syllable (Fine) + kNN-VC
39.4
16.9
57.73
33.32
Syllable (Global) + kNN-VC
39.0
15.9
52.75
36.29
4.4. Conversion setups
For conversion, similarly to [6], we first train the Urhythmic
segmenter on LJSpeech to obtain the 100 centroids, hierarchi-
cally group them into the three speech types, and perform seg-
mentation as described in Section 2. Using both the Urhyth-
mic and syllable-based methods, we compute global and fine-
grained rhythm models for LJSpeech and each Torgo speaker,
enabling the conversion of Torgo utterances to LJSpeech under
different setups. We then evaluate and compare ASR perfor-
mance across original, vocoded (encoded and decoded without
modification), voice-converted, rhythm-converted (using each
global and fine-grained method), and rhythm + voice-converted
samples. In the next section, we refer to the rhythm conver-
sion approaches as Syllable and Urhythmic, denoting the fine-
grained and global methods as Fine and Global, respectively.
5. Results
Figure 3 presents the speaking rates calculated for each Torgo
speaker using the syllable-based method. We can observe that
speaking rates increase with lower severity levels as expected.
Severe and moderately severe speakers exhibit rates around 2
syllables per second, while control speakers have a rate close
to 4 syllables per second, which aligns with the typical aver-
age. Compared to speaking rates derived from counting sono-
rants per second, as reported in [6], the syllable-based method
provides clearer separation between severity levels and more
consistent rates for control speakers. Moreover, Figure 4 il-
lustrates the syllable duration gamma distributions for control
2762

F01
M01
M02
M04
M05
F03
F04
M03
FC01
FC02
FC03 MC01 MC02 MC03 MC04
Speaker
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
WER
Per-speaker WER Across Experiments (Sentences)
Original
Vocoded
kNN-VC
Syllable (Global)
Syllable (Global) + kNN-VC
(a) Sentences
F01
M01
M02
M04
M05
F03
F04
M03
FC01
FC02
FC03 MC01 MC02 MC03 MC04
Speaker
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
WER
Per-speaker WER Across Experiments (Isolated Words)
Original
Vocoded
kNN-VC
Syllable (Global)
Syllable (Global) + kNN-VC
(b) Isolated Words
Figure 5: Per-speaker WER results on Torgo using the LF-MMI model for different conversion setups.
speaker MC02 and speaker with dysarthria M02. The proba-
bility density for the control speaker peaks just below 0.25 sec-
onds, which would correspond to a rate of 4 syllables per sec-
ond. In contrast, the distribution for the speaker with dysarthria
is more variable, peaks at 0.4 seconds, and has a longer tail,
with some syllable durations exceeding 1 second.
Table 1 presents the WER results averaged across dysarthric
Torgo speakers for both the LF-MMI and fine-tuned Whisper-
base models.
For the Whisper-base models, the conversion
methods do not yield improvements over fine-tuning on the
original data, with WERs of approximately 30 for sentences
and 50 for isolated words.
In contrast, the LF-MMI model
shows clear improvement. When trained on the original data,
its performance is comparable to the Whisper models. Apply-
ing kNN-VC significantly enhances results, achieving the low-
est WER for isolated words and reducing the WER to 18.4
for sentences. Rhythm conversion methods also improve per-
formance: both global rhythm conversion approaches reduce
WER to around 20 for sentences, while the syllable-based fine-
grained method outperforms the Urhythmic-based fine-grained
method and performs similarly to the global methods. Finally,
combining rhythm conversion with kNN-VC further reduces
WER, achieving the best overall sentence performance (15.9)
when either global rhythm conversion method is used. For iso-
lated words, this combination performs comparably to kNN-VC
alone and outperforms rhythm conversion alone.
Figure 5 presents the WER results per speaker for differ-
ent configurations. For sentences, the vocoded data interest-
ingly outperforms the original data. Both kNN-VC and global
syllable-based conversion show clear improvements over the
original and vocoded data, particularly for speakers with more
severe dysarthria. Combining these methods further reduces
WER, except for speaker M04, where rhythm conversion has
minimal impact. Performance for mild and control speakers
on the other hand is largely unaffected or slightly improved by
the conversion methods. For isolated words, kNN-VC provides
the most significant improvements, while its combination with
rhythm modeling yields additional gains in some cases, though
the effect is less significant than for sentences.
6. Discussion and conclusions
The rhythm analysis and modeling results demonstrate that
syllable-based segmentation is well-suited for dysarthric
speech.
The clear correlation between speaking rate and
dysarthria severity supports this approach, as speaking rate in-
creases with lower severity. Additionally, fitting a gamma dis-
tribution to each speaker’s syllable durations provides a more
detailed representation of individual rhythm characteristics. Be-
yond conversion, the ability to capture detailed rhythmic infor-
mation could be helpful for diagnostic and assessment tools for
dysarthric speech.
Dysarthric-to-healthy rhythm conversion proved particu-
larly beneficial for the LF-MMI model, leading to noticeable
WER reductions, especially for speakers with severe and mod-
erately severe dysarthria.
Global rhythm modeling methods
performed best, as they rely on simple utterance-level time-
stretching, minimizing errors and preventing artifacts.
Fur-
ther, these methods do not require highly precise speaking rate
calculations, as long as the overall speaking rate is increased
for highly severe cases. Among fine-grained rhythm modeling
methods, the syllable-based approach was more effective than
the fine-grained Urhythmic method. While the former achieved
performance improvements comparable to global methods, the
latter introduced artifacts due to imprecise segmentation, result-
ing in a drop in ASR performance. In addition, we observed
that voice conversion using kNN-VC was just as effective in
improving the LF-MMI model’s performance. This is likely
due to reducing the inter-speaker variations, which simplifies
the task for the model. The best results were obtained by per-
forming both rhythm and voice conversion, demonstrating that
both techniques are complementary.
On the other hand, fine-tuned Whisper-base models did not
benefit from rhythm or voice conversion, likely due to their ex-
tensive pre-training on over 680,000 hours of healthy speaker
audio. This large-scale training enables Whisper to generalize
well across speakers, making voice standardization unneces-
sary. Furthermore, once fine-tuned on dysarthric speech, the
model’s transformer architecture can adapt to slower speak-
ing rates, reducing the need for rhythm conversion. Indeed, the
fine-tuned models significantly outperform the pre-trained base
model, which, as reported in [6], produced hallucinated outputs
when not adapted to dysarthric speech. These hallucinations are
caused by slower speaking rates and resulted in excessively high
WER values for speakers with severe dysarthria. In contrast, the
LF-MMI model benefited from rhythm and voice conversion as
it was trained from scratch. Converting all Torgo data to a single
speaker reduced inter-speaker variations, simplifying the train-
ing process and enhancing test-time performance on similarly
converted data. Future work could focus on identifying distinct
syllable groups to enable more detailed rhythm modeling.
2763

7. Acknowledgements
This work was partially supported by the Swiss National Sci-
ence Foundation (SNSF) through the project “Pathological
Speech Synthesis (PaSS)” (grant agreement no. 219726), by
the SNSF through the Bridge Discovery project “Emotion in the
loop - a step towards a comprehensive closed-loop deep brain
stimulation in Parkinson’s disease (EMIL)” (grant agreement
no. 40B2–0 194794), and by the Innosuisse through the flag-
ship project “Inclusive Information and Communication Tech-
nologies (IICT)” (grant agreement no. PFFS-21-47).
8. References
[1] J. R. Duffy, Motor Speech Disorders, 3rd ed.
Mosby, 2012.
[2] M. Moore, H. Venkateswara, and S. Panchanathan, “Whistle-
blowing ASRs: Evaluating the Need for More Inclusive Speech
Recognition Systems,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2018, pp. 466–470.
[3] M. Soleymanpour, M. T. Johnson, R. Soleymanpour, and J. Berry,
“Synthesizing Dysarthric Speech Using Multi-Speaker TTS For
Dysarthric Speech Recognition,” in Proc. ICASSP, May 2022, pp.
7382–7386.
[4] E. Hermann and M. Magimai.-Doss, “Few-shot Dysarthric
Speech Recognition with Text-to-Speech Data Augmentation,” in
Proc. Interspeech, Aug. 2023, pp. 156–160.
[5] W.-Z. Leung, M. Cross, A. Ragni, and S. Goetze, “Training Data
Augmentation for Dysarthric Automatic Speech Recognition by
Text-to-Dysarthric-Speech Synthesis,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2024,
pp. 2494–2498.
[6] K. E. Hajal, E. Hermann, A. Kulkarni, and M. Magimai.-Doss,
“Unsupervised rhythm and voice conversion of dysarthric to
healthy speech for ASR,” in Proc. Workshop on Speech Pathol-
ogy Analysis and DEtection (SPADE) at ICASSP, 2025.
[7] F. Rudzicz, A. K. Namasivayam, and T. Wolff, “The TORGO
database of acoustic and articulatory speech from speakers with
dysarthria,” in Proc. LREC, vol. 46, no. 4, 2012, pp. 523–541.
[8] D. Povey, V. Peddinti, D. Galvez, P. Ghahremani, V. Manohar,
X. Na, Y. Wang, and S. Khudanpur, “Purely Sequence-Trained
Neural Networks for ASR Based on Lattice-Free MMI,” in Proc.
Interspeech, 2016, pp. 2751–2755.
[9] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak su-
pervision,” in Proc. ICML, 2023.
[10] B. van Niekerk, M.-A. Carbonneau, and H. Kamper, “Rhythm
modeling for voice conversion,” IEEE Signal Processing Letters,
vol. 30, pp. 1297–1301, 2023.
[11] M. Baas, B. van Niekerk, and H. Kamper, “Voice conversion with
just nearest neighbors,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2023, pp. 2053–
2057.
[12] T. Pfau and G. Ruske, “Estimating the speaking rate by vowel
detection,” in Proc. ICASSP, vol. 2, 1998, pp. 945–948 vol.2.
[13] S. Hovsepyan and M. Magimai.-Doss, “Syllable level features
for Parkinson’s disease detection from speech,” in Proc. ICASSP,
2024, pp. 11 416–11 420.
[14] O. R¨as¨anen, G. Doyle, and M. C. Frank, “Pre-linguistic segmen-
tation of speech into syllable-like units,” Cognition, vol. 171, pp.
130–150, 2018.
[15] S. Chen, C. Wang, Z. Chen, Y. Wu, S. Liu, Z. Chen, J. Li,
N. Kanda, T. Yoshioka, X. Xiao, J. Wu, L. Zhou, S. Ren, Y. Qian,
Y. Qian, J. Wu, M. Zeng, X. Yu, and F. Wei, “WavLM: Large-
scale self-supervised pre-training for full stack speech process-
ing,” IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing, pp.
1505–1518, 2022.
[16] J. Kong, J. Kim, and J. Bae, “HiFi-GAN: Generative adversarial
networks for efficient and high fidelity speech synthesis,” in Proc.
NeurIPS, 2020, pp. 17 022–17 033.
[17] K. Ito and L. Johnson, “The LJ speech dataset,” https://keithito.
com/LJ-Speech-Dataset/, 2017.
[18] D. Povey, G. Cheng, Y. Wang, K. Li, H. Xu, M. Yarmohammadi,
and S. Khudanpur, “Semi-Orthogonal Low-Rank Matrix Factor-
ization for Deep Neural Networks,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2018,
pp. 3743–3747.
[19] D. Povey, A. Ghoshal, G. Boulianne, L. Burget, O. Glembek,
N. Goel, M. Hannemann, P. Motl´ıˇcek, Y. Qian, P. Schwarz,
J. Silovsk´y, G. Stemmer, and K. Vesel´y, “The Kaldi Speech
Recognition Toolkit,” in Proc. ASRU, 2011.
[20] E. Hermann and M. Magimai.-Doss, “Dysarthric speech recog-
nition with lattice-free MMI,” in Proc. ICASSP, 2020, pp. 6109–
6113.
2764
