Triadic Multi-party V oice Activity Projection for Turn-taking
in Spoken Dialogue Systems
Mikey Elmers, Koji Inoue, Divesh Lala, Tatsuya Kawahara
Graduate School of Informatics, Kyoto University, Japan
[elmers, inoue, lala, kawahara]@sap.ist.i.kyoto-u.ac.jp
Abstract
Turn-taking is a fundamental component of spoken dia-
logue, however conventional studies mostly involve dyadic set-
tings. This work focuses on applying voice activity projection
(V AP) to predict upcoming turn-taking in triadic multi-party
scenarios. The goal of V AP models is to predict the future voice
activity for each speaker utilizing only acoustic data. This is the
first study to extend V AP into triadic conversation. We trained
multiple models on a Japanese triadic dataset where participants
discussed a variety of topics. We found that the V AP trained on
triadic conversation outperformed the baseline for all models
but that the type of conversation affected the accuracy. This
study establishes that V AP can be used for turn-taking in triadic
dialogue scenarios. Future work will incorporate this triadic
V AP turn-taking model into spoken dialogue systems.
Index Terms: turn-taking, multi-party, voice activity projec-
tion, spoken dialogue system
1. Introduction
Turn-taking is essential to human-human conversation deter-
mining who should talk and when [1], with successful com-
munication requiring synchronization between speakers and ad-
dressees [2]. Turn-taking exhibits language-independent char-
acteristics, such as a focus on fewer silences and less overlap-
ping speech [3]. However, overlapping speech is largely influ-
enced by both the type of conversation and the number of partic-
ipants involved. A fundamental problem within turn-taking re-
search is that we find short delays during turn-taking with gaps
between 100 − 300 ms even though we find language produc-
tion latencies between 600 − 1500 ms [4]. This suggests that
humans prepare the next utterance even before the current ut-
terance is completed by predicting turn-taking. In fact, long
gaps of silence can cause issues in conversation. For example,
across a variety of languages (e.g., American English, Italian,
and Japanese) long gaps of silence reduced ratings for both re-
quests and assessments [5].
Spoken dialogue systems (SDSs) have become common-
place in everyday life but still struggle with a number of issues
[6], including turn-taking. Turn-taking in SDSs has tradition-
ally been inflexible [7], using silence thresholds for determin-
ing when the system should take the turn [8]. These silence
thresholds usually range between 500 − 1000 ms [9], incurring
trade-offs such as: 1) delays for the system response, and 2) in-
terruptions for the speaker who has not finished their turn. The
poor turn-taking quality of SDSs results in users adopting an
unnatural turn-taking style, including false starts before the sys-
tem begins speaking. In order to improve the performance of
SDSs, it is necessary to develop turn-taking systems that reflect
human-human conversation, since response timing is an impor-
tant contributor for subjective evaluations of naturalness [10].
V oice Activity Projection (V AP) [11] has been widely
used as a turn-taking model to predict joint future voice ac-
tivity using only acoustic information. V AP has been used in
many scenarios including: real-time continuous turn-taking 1,
multilingual [12] and multi-modal [13] turn-taking, filled pause
analysis [14], backchannel prediction [15], and incremental re-
sponse generation [16]. However, research using V AP has ex-
clusively focused on dyadic conversation. The goal of this work
is to extend V AP to a multi-party setting, specifically three-
person (i.e., triadic) conversations.
The major contribution of this paper is the development
and analysis of triadic V AP models. This is the first study in
which V AP has been used for triadic multi-party turn-taking.
The methods, including data, pre-processing, model architec-
ture, and model training, are presented in Section 2, the results
in Section 3, a general discussion and the limitations of this
work in Section 4, and a summary and conclusion in Section 5.
2. Methods
2.1. V oice Activity Projection
V AP predicts future voice activity for all speakers jointly us-
ing only acoustic information. The voice activity is coded as a
binary (i.e., speaking or not speaking) sequentially throughout
the conversation. Traditionally, dyadic V AP models have pre-
dicted a state window of 2 s of future voice activity discretized
into four sub-state bins per speaker with durations of 0.2 s, 0.4 s,
0.6 s, and 0.8 s, resulting in eight sub-state bins (i.e., 2 speakers
* 4 bins), or 28 = 256 possible states. Future voice activity pre-
dictions become more complicated as we add additional speak-
ers because as the number of participants increases the num-
ber of possible states increases as well. Therefore, we opted
to evaluate our triadic model with two sub-states bins for each
speaker resulting in six sub-state bins (i.e., 3 speakers * 2 bins),
or 26 = 64 possible states. Figure 1 shows an example of our
triadic V AP model. We chose to maintain the sub-state bins
with durations of 0.2 s and 0.4 s rather than extending our two
sub-state bins to cover the entire 2 s that traditional dyadic mod-
els cover. A bin is determined as active if a majority of the bin
contains voice activity. The bins are averaged using a probabil-
ity distribution to determine overall voice activity. The discrete
states are used as labels during training. For more information
regarding V AP states, see [17].
2.2. Dataset
The V AP model for this experiment was trained using our TEI-
DAN corpus. We constructed the TEIDAN corpus as a multi-
1https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.04868
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
3015 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2660

Figure 1: Discretized bins for triadic VAP model. The dashed
vertical line demarcates the bins and the segments indicate
speaker voice activity.
modal multi-party dialogue corpus of triadic discussions be-
cause we were unable to find other datasets that contained spon-
taneous triadic conversations with separated audio channels for
each speaker. The participants sat in a circle as seen in Fig-
ure 2. Each participant had a separate pin microphone, and a
microphone array was placed at the center of the table. Sepa-
rate cameras individually recorded each participant. The discus-
sions were conducted entirely in Japanese. The corpus consists
of both spontaneous discussions and attentive listening. Partic-
ipants were instructed to engage in free discussion in all sce-
narios with no forced ending point. Half of the participants in
the spontaneous triads discussed the following three topics: 1)
possible alternative capital cities for Japan, 2) items necessary
for survival on a deserted island, and 3) potential travel loca-
tions for a weekend trip. The other half of participants in the
spontaneous triads discussed an alternative set of three topics:
1) ranking money, familiy, or experiences based on personal
importance, 2) choosing to visit a city, mountain, or beach for
a fun trip, and 3) traveling to Tokyo by bullet train, plane, or
car. The same triad discussed all topics resulting in three ses-
sions per triad group. The attentive listening triads involved
a primary speaker who spoke about whatever topic they wanted
while the other two participants responded as active listeners. In
the attentive listening triads all three participants performed as
both the primary speaker and active listener roles. We collected
data from eighteen unique triads (twelve spontaneous and six
attentive listening) resulting in a total of fifty-four discussions.
Table 1 shows the duration values for the corpus. Manual voice
activity annotations were made for all speakers for training the
V AP model.
Table 1: Duration information for the TEIDAN dataset. The
mean (Avg.) and total (Total) duration for the spontaneous (SP),
attentive listening (ATT), and combined (BOTH) datasets are
provided. Duration values are measured in minutes.
Category A vg. Total
SP 6.20 223.36
ATT 3.58 64.43
BOTH 5.33 287.79
We evaluated the amount of overlapping speech present in
the TEIDAN corpus. This is important because dyadic and tri-
adic speech can differ in the number of overlapping speakers.
Figure 2: Example session setup from TEIDAN corpus.
This problem is further intensified by the spontaneous speech
found within our corpus. As previously mentioned, our dataset
included manual annotations of voice activity for each speaker.
We calculated overlapping segments of speech by locating the
voice activity labels for each participant and evaluating the fol-
lowing categories: mutual silence (i.e., no voice activity from
any speaker), single speaker (i.e, voice activity from a single
member of the triad), two speakers (i.e., simultaneous voice
activity from two members of the triad), and three speakers
(i.e., simultaneous voice activity from all members of the triad).
Table 2 contains the overlapping speech information for the
TEIDAN corpus. On average, overlapping speech accounted
for 31.98% of the total duration in the spontaneous data, and
21.17% in the attentive listening data. The presence of over-
lapping speech in the attentive listening data can be largely ex-
plained as backchanneling.
Table 2: Overlapping speech information for the TEIDAN
dataset. The mean percent (out of 100%) is provided for mu-
tual silence, a single speaker, two speakers, and three speakers
for spontaneous (SP), attentive listening (ATT), and combined
(BOTH).
Silence Single Double Triple
SP 12.02% 56.01% 24.24% 7.74%
ATT 15.47% 63.36% 15.68% 5.49%
BOTH 13.11% 58.82% 21.31% 6.76%
2.3. Pre-Processing
The V AP model for this experiment is trained using a three-
channel audio (i.e., one channel for each speaker) with a 16 kHz
sampling rate, and a 16-bit bit depth. We did not incorporate
any form of diarization since each participant had their own pin
microphone. The V AP model evaluates the audio and voice ac-
tivity information in 20 s intervals. We included the start time
and end time for each voice activity segment for all three speak-
ers for each 20 s interval. Since the model predicts the future
600 ms of voice activity, we included voice activity information
up to 20.6 s for each interval. The V AP model was trained on the
raw audio and voice activity information for each 20 s interval.
3016

Figure 3: Triadic VAP model architecture.
2.4. Model Architecture
The triadic V AP model architecture is shown in Figure 3. Simi-
lar to other V AP studies, we used a pre-trained contrastive pre-
dictive coding (CPC) 2 encoder to extract features from the raw
audio. The CPC was pre-trained on the LibriSpeech dataset
[18] using the methods described in [19]. The CPC output is
fed to a one-layer self-attention Transformer [20] that indepen-
dently evaluates each audio channel. The outputs from the self-
attention Transformer are inputted into a 64-dimension three-
layer multi-channel cross-attention Transformer which encodes
interactive information from the three channels. Next, we con-
catenate the outputs from the Transformers and perform mul-
titask learning. The primary task is V AP which predicts future
voice activity of the three participants, encoded in Figure 1. The
second task is voice activity detection (V AD) which detects cur-
rent voice activity for the three participants to help stabilize the
V AP training [12]. Overall, the triadic V AP model architecture
is largely the same as the architecture used for dyadic V AP. The
dyadic cross-attention was extended to a multi-channel cross at-
tention Transformer designed to handle triadic data.
2.5. Model Training
The V AP model uses the previous voice activity of 20 s and the
accompanying waveform as input to predict the future voice ac-
tivity of 0.6 s using a 50 Hz frame rate (i.e., frame predictions
are made every 20 ms). We split the data using 80% for train-
ing, 10% for validation, and 10% for testing with a random seed
set for reproducibility. The data was split so that data from a
specific triad was not used in multiple splits. The model was
trained for 10 epochs with a batch size of 8 and a weight decay
of 0.001. We used the AdamW optimizer with a learning rate
of 3.64×10−4. Cross-entropy loss was used as the loss function,
comparing ground truth labels and predicted voice activity dur-
ing training. The test set was evaluated using the model that
produced the smallest loss on the validation split. The model
was implemented using PyTorch [21] and based on code from
previous work [12].
3. Results
3.1. Loss
We evaluated three models: 1) a model trained only on the spon-
taneous speech from the TEIDAN corpus, 2) a model trained
only on the attentive listening part of the TEIDAN corpus, and
2https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.03748
3) a model that was trained on both spontaneous and attentive
listening. Table 3 contains the test loss for the three models. The
model with both spontaneous speech and attentive listening per-
formed best while the attentive listening only model performed
the worst.
Table 3: Model test loss performance for only spontaneous
(SP), only attentive listening (ATT), and combined (BOTH).
Model Loss
SP 2.31
ATT 2.51
BOTH 2.09
3.2. Model Comparison
We evaluated the V AP model by predicting the next speaker
during periods of mutual silence. First, we located segments
of mutual silence (i.e., no voice activity from any of the speak-
ers) that were at least 100 ms in duration. Next, we determined
the next speaker. However, to prevent detecting backchannels
or other short responses, we looked for speech that was at least
1 s in duration and made sure there was no other overlapping
speech during that time. We evaluated the model’s expected
probabilities from when the speaker begins up to 600 ms in the
past (i.e., the maximal amount the model predicts). Next, we
aggregated the probabilities for the three speakers during this
time. Finally, we compared the speaker with the highest prob-
ability during the mutual silence to the upcoming speaker to
determine if the model’s prediction was accurate or not. We
compared against a last speaker baseline where the model pre-
dicted the last speaker as the current speaker. Table 4 contains
the accuracy for the three models. All models performed better
than the respective baseline. The model trained only on spon-
taneous data had lower accuracy than those trained on attentive
listening, as more participants speak simultaneously during dis-
cussions. As expected, performance accuracy was much higher
for the attentive listening data, where a single speaker predom-
inately leads the conversation.
Table 4: Next speaker prediction comparing baseline and pro-
posed method for only spontaneous (SP), only attentive listen-
ing (ATT), and combined (BOTH).
Model Baseline Proposed
SP 55.56% 62.43%
ATT 81.25% 87.50%
BOTH 77.58% 86.83%
3.3. Predictions vs. Ground Truth Example
Figure 4 provides an example comparing the model’s predic-
tions to ground truth labels during 4 s of dialogue. At ∼ 2.5 s,
speaker 3 (green) begins a turn while briefly overlapping with
speaker 2 (orange). The model indicates that speaker 3 has
the highest output probability—correctly predicting the turn
change—but underestimates speaker 2, illustrating the chal-
lenge of assigning probabilities during overlap, where predic-
tions must exceed a threshold and are constrained to single-
speaker outputs. Importantly, the model accurately predicts the
3017

0.25
0.00
0.25
Speaker 1 - Input Audio
0.25
0.00
0.25
Speaker 2 - Input Audio
0.25
0.00
0.25
Speaker 3 - Input Audio
0.0
0.5
1.0
Speaker 1 - Output Probability
0.0
0.5
1.0
Speaker 2 - Output Probability
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0
Time (s)
0.0
0.5
1.0
Speaker 3 - Output Probability
Figure 4: The top three plots show the ground truth waveforms
(amplitude) for each of the three speakers, while the bottom
three depict the model’s predicted voice activity probabilities
(0 to 1). Colors denote speaker: blue (1), orange (2), and green
(3).
switch from speaker 2 to speaker 3 even though both speakers
overlap before and after the mutual silence.
4. Discussion
In this work we evaluated a triadic V AP model and found that
the model can accurately predict upcoming non-overlapping
speech during periods of mutual silence. However, we found
overlapping speech to be especially common in our TEIDAN
data. This problem is magnified since our data uses spontaneous
speech where speaker overlap is prevalent. Overlapping speech
found during conversation is influenced by a number of factors
including: speaker familiarity (i.e., friends or strangers), lan-
guage, gender, and conversation topic [22]. Future work should
consider how to predict turn-taking for overlapping speech es-
pecially if it remains quite common in other datasets.
The goal of this work was to develop a multi-party turn-
taking system that can be implemented into embodied robots
and virtual agents. Therefore, future work will implement this
triadic V AP model into a SDS to evaluate it in a variety of sce-
narios and see how the model performs in experimental condi-
tions with subjective ratings.
There are some limitations to the approach used in this
work. Our current V AP implementation only used acoustic in-
formation. However, content, syntax, prosody, paralanguage,
and gesture are additional cues that contribute to turn-yielding
[23]. Gravano et al. [24] found that as the number of turn-
yielding cues increases, so does the chance of a turn change.
To effectively model turn-taking requires a wealth of multi-
modal information such as gaze [13], gesture, linguistic infor-
mation, and speaker intention [25]. Therefore, incorporating
more multi-modal cues when modeling turn-taking improves
the accuracy of identifying turn changes. Incorporating visual
and linguistic information will be especially important for pre-
dicting the next speaker. In dyadic turn-taking it is implicitly
assumed that when the current speaker has finished their turn
the other speaker will initiate their turn. However, multi-party
turn-taking is more complex in that it is not immediately clear
using only acoustic information who will take the turn after the
current speaker finishes their turn. This work was designed to
find the limit of acoustic-only V AP for multi-party turn-taking.
However, it is essential to incorporate many cues from different
modalities to accurately model multi-party turn-taking.
Another important area for consideration is the number of
participants involved in the multi-party dialogue. In the present
study we focused exclusively on triadic multi-party conversa-
tion, however, future work should evaluate additional group
sizes. One issue inherent to the design of traditional V AP mod-
els is that, as the number of participants increases, the number
of states increases significantly. For example, if we maintained
four bins per speaker (like other dyadic V AP studies), dyadic
conversation results in 28 = 256 possible states, triadic conver-
sation results in 212 = 4096 possible states, and tetradic con-
versation results in 216 = 65536 possible states. The number of
possible states quickly becomes unmanageable even before we
reach group sizes of five to ten participants. In addition to data
sparsity issues, we encountered memory issues during training
when we attempted to evaluate a triadic model with four sub-
state bins. Therefore, it is important to consider a reasonable
amount of possible states to prevent data sparsity and training
issues. It is possible that the design of V AP might struggle to
handle groups larger than four or five participants, and that al-
ternative methods might be necessary for predicting turn-taking
for larger group sizes. When designing the triadic V AP archi-
tecture we chose the multi-channel cross-attention Transformer
to be scalable for larger group sizes. Therefore, in future work
we plan to evaluate group sizes larger than three-person conver-
sations to find the limits of the V AP methodology with respect
to group size.
Lastly, the TEIDAN dataset is a new corpus that is currently
in development, continuing to expand, and will be released in
the future. Previous V AP models were evaluated on large dyadic
datasets that are not available for triadic conversation. In this
study, we evaluated our triadic V AP model exclusively on the
TEIDAN corpus, which only contains Japanese conversations
This decision was made for practical reasons since it is difficult
to find spontaneous triadic corpora that contain accurate voice
activity information for all speakers. Dataset selection is im-
portant since previous work has shown that V AP performance
is dependent on the dataset [26]. Future work should also in-
corporate additional languages like [12] and evaluate multiple
datasets for each group size.
5. Conclusions
This work is the first to incorporate voice activity projection
(V AP) into triadic turn-taking prediction. We trained our tri-
adic turn-taking model using a corpus that included both spon-
taneous discussion and attentive listening. All triadic V AP mod-
els outperformed the baseline comparison. These results indi-
cate that our triadic V AP models can accurately predict the next
speaker during periods of mutual silence. Future work will in-
corporate the triadic V AP model into a spoken dialogue system
and evaluate the performance in experimental settings.
6. Acknowledgements
This work was supported by JST Moonshot R&D JPMJPS2011
and JST PREST JPMJPR24I4. The authors also wish to express
their appreciation to members of the speech and audio process-
ing laboratory at Kyoto University for their participation in the
data collection.
3018

7. References
[1] H. Sacks, E. A. Schegloff, and G. Jefferson, “A simplest system-
atics for the organization of turn-taking for conversation,” Lan-
guage, vol. 50, no. 4, pp. 696–735, 1974.
[2] H. H. Clark, “Speaking in time,” Speech Communication, vol. 36,
no. 1, pp. 5–13, 2002, eSCA Workshop on Dialogue and Prosody,
September 1999.
[3] T. Stivers, N. J. Enfield, P. Brown, C. Englert, M. Hayashi,
T. Heinemann, G. Hoymann, F. Rossano, J. P. De Ruiter, K.-
E. Yoon, and S. C. Levinson, “Universals and cultural varia-
tion in turn-taking in conversation,” Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences of the United States of America , vol. 106,
no. 26, pp. 10 587–10 592, 2009.
[4] E. Bates, S. D’Amico, T. Jacobsen, A. Sz ´ekely, E. Andonova,
A. Devescovi, D. Herron, C. C. Lu, T. Pechmann, C. Pl ´eh,
N. Wicha, K. Federmeier, I. Gerdjikova, G. Gutierrez, D. Hung,
J. Hsu, G. Iyer, K. Kohnert, T. Mehotcheva, A. Orozco-Figueroa,
A. Tzeng, and O. Tzeng, “Timed picture naming in seven lan-
guages,” Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 344–
380, 2003.
[5] P. M. Felicia Roberts and S. Takano, “Judgments concerning the
valence of inter-turn silence across speakers of american english,
italian, and japanese,” Discourse Processes, vol. 48, no. 5, pp.
331–354, 2011.
[6] N. G. Ward and D. DeVault, “Challenges in building highly inter-
active dialogue systems,” AI Magazine, vol. 37, no. 4, pp. 7–18,
2016.
[7] N. G. Ward, O. Fuentes, and A. Vega, “Dialog prediction for
a general model of turn-taking,” in Interspeech 2010, 2010, pp.
2662–2665.
[8] G. Skantze, A. Hjalmarsson, and C. Oertel, “Turn-taking, feed-
back and joint attention in situated human–robot interaction,”
Speech Communication, vol. 65, pp. 50–66, 2014.
[9] L. Ferrer, E. Shriberg, and A. Stolcke, “Is the speaker done
yet? faster and more accurate end-of-utterance detection using
prosody,” in 7th International Conference on Spoken Language
Processing (ICSLP 2002), 2002, pp. 2061–2064.
[10] T. Itoh, N. Kitaoka, and R. Nishimura, “Subjective experiments on
influence of response timing in spoken dialogues,” in Interspeech
2009, 2009, pp. 1835–1838.
[11] E. Ekstedt and G. Skantze, “V oice activity projection: Self-
supervised learning of turn-taking events,” in Interspeech 2022,
2022, pp. 5190–5194.
[12] K. Inoue, B. Jiang, E. Ekstedt, T. Kawahara, and G. Skantze,
“Multilingual turn-taking prediction using voice activity projec-
tion,” in Proceedings of the 2024 Joint International Conference
on Computational Linguistics, Language Resources and Evalua-
tion (LREC-COLING 2024), 2024, pp. 11 873–11 883.
[13] K. Onishi, H. Tanaka, and S. Nakamura, “Multimodal voice activ-
ity prediction: Turn-taking events detection in expert-novice con-
versation,” in Proceedings of the 11th International Conference
on Human-Agent Interaction (HAI ’23), 2023, p. 13–21.
[14] B. Jiang, E. Ekstedt, and G. Skantze, “What makes a good pause?
investigating the turn-holding effects of fillers,” in Proceedings
of the 20th International Congress of Phonetic Sciences (ICPhS
’23), 2023, pp. 3512–3516.
[15] W. Liermann, Y .-H. Park, Y .-S. Choi, and K. Lee, “Dialogue act-
aided backchannel prediction using multi-task learning,” in Find-
ings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP
2023, 2023, pp. 15 073–15 079.
[16] Y . Chiba and R. Higashinaka, “Investigating the impact of incre-
mental processing and voice activity projection on spoken dia-
logue systems,” in Proceedings of the 31st International Confer-
ence on Computational Linguistics, 2025, pp. 3687–3696.
[17] E. Ekstedt, “Predictive modeling of turn-taking in spoken dia-
logue : Computational approaches for the analysis of turn-taking
in humans and spoken dialogue systems,” Ph.D. dissertation,
KTH, Speech, Music and Hearing, TMH, 2023, qC 20231115.
[18] V . Panayotov, G. Chen, D. Povey, and S. Khudanpur, “Lib-
rispeech: An asr corpus based on public domain audio books,”
in 2015 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2015, pp. 5206–5210.
[19] M. Rivi `ere, A. Joulin, P.-E. Mazar ´e, and E. Dupoux, “Unsu-
pervised pretraining transfers well across languages,” in ICASSP
2020 - 2020 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech
and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2020, pp. 7414–7418.
[20] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A. N.
Gomez, L. u. Kaiser, and I. Polosukhin, “Attention is all you
need,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems ,
vol. 30, 2017.
[21] A. Paszke, S. Gross, F. Massa, A. Lerer, J. Bradbury, G. Chanan,
T. Killeen, Z. Lin, N. Gimelshein, L. Antiga, A. Desmaison,
A. Kopf, E. Yang, Z. DeVito, M. Raison, A. Tejani, S. Chil-
amkurthy, B. Steiner, L. Fang, J. Bai, and S. Chintala, “Pytorch:
An imperative style, high-performance deep learning library,” in
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , vol. 32,
2019.
[22] J. Yuan, M. Liberman, and C. Cieri, “Towards an integrated un-
derstanding of speech overlaps in conversation,” in Proceedings
of the 16th International Congress of Phonetic Sciences (ICPhS
’07), 2007, pp. 1337–1340.
[23] S. Duncan, “Some signals and rules for taking speaking turns
in conversations,” Journal of Personality and Social Psychology,
vol. 23, no. 2, pp. 283–292, 1972.
[24] A. Gravano and J. Hirschberg, “Turn-taking cues in task-oriented
dialogue,” Computer Speech & Language, vol. 25, no. 3, pp. 601–
634, 2011.
[25] Z. Aldeneh, D. Dimitriadis, and E. M. Provost, “Improving end-
of-turn detection in spoken dialogues by detecting speaker inten-
tions as a secondary task,” in2018 IEEE International Conference
on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2018, pp.
6159–6163.
[26] Y . Sato, Y . Chiba, and R. Higashinaka, “Investigating the language
independence of voice activity projection models through stan-
dardization of speech segmentation labels,” in 2024 Asia Pacific
Signal and Information Processing Association Annual Summit
and Conference (APSIPA ASC), 2024, pp. 1–6.
3019
