Developing a Top-tier Framework in Naturalistic Conditions Challenge for
Categorized Emotion Prediction: From Speech Foundation Models and
Learning Objective to Data Augmentation and Engineering Choices
*Tiantian Feng1, *Thanathai Lertpetchpun1, Dani Byrd1, Shrikanth Narayanan1
1University of Southern California, Los Angeles, USA
tiantiaf, lertpetc@usc.edu
Abstract
Speech emotion recognition (SER), particularly for naturally
expressed emotions, remains a challenging computational task.
Key challenges include the inherent subjectivity in emotion an-
notation and the imbalanced distribution of emotion labels in
datasets. This paper introduces the SAILER system devel-
oped for participation in the INTERSPEECH 2025 Emotion
Recognition Challenge (Task 1). The challenge dataset, which
contains natural emotional speech from podcasts, serves as a
valuable resource for studying imbalanced and subjective emo-
tion annotations. Our system is designed to be simple, repro-
ducible, and effective, highlighting critical choices in model-
ing, learning objectives, data augmentation, and engineering
choices. Results show that even a single system (without en-
sembling) can outperform more than 95% of the submissions,
with a Macro-F1 score exceeding 0.4. Moreover, an ensem-
ble of three systems further improves performance, achieving a
competitively ranked score (top-3 performing team). Our model
is at: https://github.com/tiantiaf0627/vox-profile-release.
Index Terms: Speech emotion recognition, speech foundation
model, data augmentation, affective computing
1. Introduction
Despite notable advances in speech emotion recognition (SER)
driven by speech foundation models [1, 2], accurately recogniz-
ing emotions from speech remains a challenging computational
problem in machine learning [3]. Key challenges include in-
herent ambiguity in emotion expressions [4] and subjectivity in
annotating emotions [5, 6], imbalanced distributions in emotion
labels, and complexity of speaker (and listener) environments
and contexts. For example, the previous Odyssey-Speech Emo-
tion Challenge reports that the top-performing team achieved
only around 0.35 macro-F1 score in an 8-emotion classifica-
tion problem [7, 8]. Previous approaches have commonly em-
ployed techniques such as focal loss to mitigate class imbalance
[9, 8]. Moreover, a universally deployed approach is used to
leverage recently developed speech foundation models, which
have shown promising improvements in SER performance [7].
This paper introduces a promising solution to Task 1 of the
IS25-Speech Emotion Recognition in Naturalistic Conditions
Challenge (which we refer to as the IS25-SER Challenge) [10].
Apart from building on the success of the past Odyssey-SER
Challenge, we identified several elements to target for improve-
ment in this IS25-SER challenge 1 [7]. First, the predominant
approach to modeling SER relies on hard labeling (one-hot en-
coding), often ignoring the complete array of annotations avail-
*indicates equal contribution
1https://lab-msp.com/MSP-Podcast Competition/IS2025/
able in the dataset. This limitation leads many approaches to
discard samples lacking annotation agreement during training,
resulting in significant data loss. Second, data augmentation,
a simple technique for diversifying input data, has rarely been
explored to mitigate data imbalance in previous challenges. Fi-
nally, many top-performing teams opt to ensemble five or more
models in their final solutions, making reproducibility practi-
cally unfriendly for the research community. Therefore, we fo-
cus on designing a reproducibility-friendly solution with mini-
mum complexity and choice of hyperparameters.
We introduce SAIL-Emotion Recognition ( SAILER), a
SER framework that systematically explores several key de-
sign considerations for effective SER modeling. SAILER ad-
dresses various aspects of SER, including modeling choice,
learning objectives, data augmentation, and engineering de-
sign choices to tackle class imbalances. Our design philosophy
prioritizes simplicity, reproducibility, and efficiency, avoiding
over-engineered solutions, unnecessary system complexity, and
bulky ensembles. We aim for the community to replicate our
system with minimal time and effort beyond the challenge. Ex-
perimental results show that a single system (without any en-
semble) can already achieve the top-tier ranks in the leader-
board, a macro-F1 above 0.4 among over 150 submissions.
Furthermore, an ensemble of three systems improves the macro-
F1 score above 0.41 (outperforming 95% submissions).
Our implementation, along with the best-performing sin-
gle system, will be publicly released and could be considered
as baselines for future research. The key design concepts and
findings are summarized below:
• A simple concatenation of output from speech and text foun-
dation models is sufficient to achieve top-tier scores.
• Modeling emotion distribution is more effective than using
cross-entropy loss by utilizing more data in the training
• Simple but novel data augmentation techniques, such as audio
mixing and annotation dropout, further improve SER perfor-
mance, especially for predicting minority emotion classes.
• Engineering choices, including distribution reweighting, in-
tegrating additional validation metrics for minority emotion
classes, and predictingother emotion attribute labels, are ben-
efit SER performance.
2. Method
2.1. Speech Foundation Model
The use of speech foundation models, such as Whisper [11] and
WavLM [12], have demonstrated effectiveness in SER. Many
recent studies [13, 14] show that simply leveraging pre-trained
speech representations is adequate to achieve competitive per-
formance compared to traditional hand-crafted features. Fur-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
4643 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1163

Speech
Speech Foundation
Model
Transcript
Pre-trained 
Text Model
1D point-wise
Convolution
Emotion Prediction
Weighted Average
Pooling
Weighted Average
Pooling
Speech Embedding Text Embbedding
Figure 1: Our proposed multimodal SER framework employs
the speech foundation model. Our results show that this simple
structure is sufficient to achieve a top-tier performance. MLP
stands for multi-layer perceptron.
thermore, our literature review indicates that downstream ar-
chitecture has a minimum impact on SER performance. Con-
sequently, the SAILER system adopts the simple downstream
model described in [15]. Specifically, the model processes the
last hidden output or a weighted average of all hidden outputs
from the encoder layers. This representation is passed through a
3-layer pointwise convolutional module, followed by temporal
averaging. Finally, the averaged output is fed into a two-layer
MLP with ReLU activation functions in between.
In addition to speech modeling, prior studies have identi-
fied that textual information benefits SER [16, 14]. We pro-
cess the transcript using pre-trained text models to integrate text
modeling into the system. Like speech modeling, we apply a
weighted average to all encoder outputs, then the temporal av-
eraging. The averaged text output is then concatenated with the
averaged speech output to create the multimodal output, which
is subsequently passed through a two-layer MLP for classifica-
tion. Our multimodal architecture is presented in Fig. 1.
2.2. Learning Objective
Most prior studies approach SER as a hard-label classification
problem. However, speech often conveys multiple emotions si-
multaneously [4], and majority-vote hardlabeling fails to cap-
ture these multifaceted characteristics [17]. Moreover, as de-
scribed in prior research [18], hard labeling can lead to a sub-
stantial data loss in training due to the ambiguity of emotions
in some speech samples. For example, in the IS25-SER Chal-
lenge, 15,932 training speech samples lacked consensus, ac-
counting for around 19% of the training data. To better repre-
sent the complexity of emotions expressed from the speech and
use every speech sample in the dataset, SAILER frames SER
as a soft labeling problem, as shown in Fig. 2. Therefore, in-
stead of relying on one-hot classification, we adopt distribution
modeling and use KL divergence loss as the learning objective.
2.3. Data Augmentation
The modeling choice and learning objective are relatively
straightforward to identify in the literature, but determining an
effective data augmentation strategy for SER remains challeng-
ing. One primary issue in the IS25-SER challenge is the imbal-
anced training data distribution. Implementing an effective data
A C D F H N S U O
1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
A C D F H N S U O
0.6 0 0.2 0 0 0.2 0 0 0
Hard Labeling
Soft Labeling
Figure 2: Our proposed soft-labeling approach. This leads to
the use of the distribution learning loss (e.g., KL-Divergence).
augmentation method could potentially increase the SER per-
formance by a large margin. Here, we define majority classes
as neutral, happy, sad, and angry, while the remaining emotions
are minority classes. We introduce two novel data augmenta-
tions to effectively address the data imbalance issue: annotation
dropout and audio mixing.
Annotation Dropout. Our first data augmentation technique is
annotation dropout. The key observation we have in (speech)
emotion labeling is that the oracle emotion distribution of a
speech sample is difficult to obtain in practice. While each
sample in the challenge dataset has at least five annotations, this
is still insufficient for estimating its precise emotion distribution
d. As a result, simple aggregation of annotations introduces
inherent noise and biases. To mitigate the noise or biases in this
scenario, we randomly drop 20% of the annotations for each
speech sample during training to increase the robustness of the
model to a slight distribution shift fromd to ˆd. Given the highly
skewed label distribution of the training data, we specifically
drop annotations from the majority classes. However, we want
to highlight that a more systematic approach would be to drop
annotations based on the empirical emotion distributions.
Audio Mixing. Our second data augmentation technique in-
volves mixing different audio samples in the training dataset
to mitigate data imbalance. Specifically, we aim to mix speech
samples from majority classes with those from minority classes.
For each majority-class speech samplexmaj, we apply this aug-
mentation with a probability of pa. We then select a minority-
class speech sample, xmin, based on an inverse empirical distri-
bution, meaning higher sampling probabilities to less frequently
occurring emotion classes. To introduce variability, we ran-
domly determine the order of xmaj and xmin when mixing.
Additionally, we introduce further variability by deciding, via a
coin flip, whether to add silence between the samples or cre-
ate overlapping segments. Finally, we sample a time value
t∈ [0, 2] to determine the duration of the silence or overlap.
Given the emotion distribution of dmaj and dmin, the emotion
distribution for the mixed audio dmix = (dmaj + dmin)/2.
2.4. Engineering Design Choices to Tackle Class Imbalance
In addition to the aforementioned design choices, we describe
several simple engineering choices that we find helpful in tack-
ling class imbalance in SER training.
Distribution Re-weighting. The first choice is to re-weight the
emotion distribution. We first estimate the training data’s em-
pirical emotion distribution q by aggregating emotion distribu-
tions from each training sample. Then, the weight wi for the
i-th emotion is simply 1
qi . We subsequently normalize w to
4644

Figure 3: Our proposed data augmentation technique to address data imbalance in SER modeling.
Table 1: Dataset statistics of IS25-SER challenge.
Training Development Test
Neutral 29,243 7,423 400
Happy 16,717 6,344 400
Sad 6,306 2,341 400
Disgust 1,432 542 400
Angry 6,731 5,836 400
Contempt 2,495 1,459 400
Fear 1,120 326 400
Surprise 1,120 987 400
Other 2,948 642 0
No Agreement 15,932 6,061 0
Table 2: Unimodal and Multimodal comparisons between two
speech foundations models: WavLM large and Whisper-Large
V3. The performance is in macro-F1 and Accuracy.
Unimodal Multimodal
Macro-F1 Acc Macro-F1 Acc
WavLM Large 0.376 50.72 0.389 55.97
Whisper-Large 0.383 53.67 0.402 55.42
have a sum of 1. During training, for each augmented speech
sample with distribution ˆd, the re-weighted distribution for each
speech sample becomes ˆd′ = ˆd◦ w. We want to underscore that
sample re-weighting is unnecessary for validation or testing.
Validation Metrics. We frequently find that, although a system
achieves a decent overall performance as measured by macro-
F1 scores, this may be largely driven by the majority classes.
Relying solely on the overall macro-F1 scores could lead to
worse performance on the test set where the emotion distribu-
tion is balanced. Therefore, it is critical to incorporate addi-
tional metrics that specifically assess the performance of minor-
ity classes. To address this, we introduce the average precision
of minority class prediction as an additional validation metric.
Predicting Additional Ground Truth. Given the additional
ground-truth annotations for each speech sample, such as sec-
ondary emotions, arousal, valence, and dominance labels, it is
worthwhile to explore a simple multi-task learning approach
that simultaneously learns the primary emotion distribution
along with other affective elements of speech.
3. Dataset and Experiment
3.1. Dataset
The IS2025 Emotion Recognition Challenge used the MSP-
Podcast dataset v1.12 [19, 10]. The dataset consists of podcast
data from the Internet, including spontaneous speech with nat-
ural human emotion expressions. The dataset is annotated with
different emotion attributes. The dataset consists of five sub-
sets: the training, development, and three unique test sets. The
IS2025 SER challenge uses the test-3 set as the test set where
the ground-truth labels have not been made public. Our experi-
ments used the entire training set, which includes nine primary
emotion classes: neutral, happy, angry, disgust, sad, surprise,
contempt, fear, and others. We also included samples with no
agreement on emotion labeling.
Given that we confirmed with the challenge organizer that
no specified rule limited the use of the dataset development set
for training, we decided to also include the ’other’ and ’no-
agreement’ samples from the development set as training data
in some later challenge submissions. While it may be trivial to
improve the current system (by at least 1-2%) by including more
of the remaining development samples, we choose not to do so
in order to ensure a consistent finding. Detailed information on
the training set and development set is reported in Table 1.
3.2. Experimental Details
While we acknowledge that hyperparameter tuning could im-
prove our current system, our primary goal is to show the ef-
fectiveness of SAILER with minimal hyperparameter search.
Therefore, all of our systems are trained with a learning rate of
0.0005 for 15 epochs. The filter size in the downstream convo-
lutional module is consistently set to 256 across all experiments.
We set the maximum of the speech input to 15 seconds and used
a fixed seed for all experiments. We base these parameters on
our previous work in [15] without significant modifications.
We evaluate two speech foundation models: WavLM Large
and Whisper Large-V3. Following the challenge baseline, we
fine-tune the pre-trained WavLM Large along with the down-
stream models, whereas for Whisper Large-V3, we fine-tune
only the downstream models. For WavLM Large, we apply a
weighted average over all encoder outputs, while for Whisper
Large-V3, we use only the representations from the last layer.
We use the RoBERTa-Large [20] as the pre-trained text model.
The limited opportunities for test set submissions make it dif-
ficult to systematically report test performance; consequently,
we primarily report validation results in most of our experi-
ments. We find that training SER based on Whisper-Large V3
is highly efficient, requiring just 12GB of GPU memory and
approximately 15 GPU hours.
4. Results
4.1. Do Speech Foundation Models Impact SER?
As suggested by [14], we first investigate whether the choice
of speech foundation models impacts the SER performance.
Specifically, we compare the performance of WavLM Large and
4645

Table 3: Comparisons of models trained without augmentation
to those with audio mixing, annotation dropout, and both com-
bined. Min. mAP indicates the average precision over the mi-
nority emotions. All the experiments are based on the multi-
modal solution that used Whisper-Large V3.
Augmentation Macro-F1 Acc Min. mAP
Not Applied 0.401 53.82 0.301
Annotation Dropout 0.403 53.87 0.321
Audio Mixing 0.404 53.42 0.336
Dropout and Mixing 0.406 53.46 0.328
Table 4: Comparisons of models trained solely on primary emo-
tions to those including secondary emotions, attribution labels,
or a combination of both. Min. mAP indicates the average pre-
cision for the minority emotions. All experiments are conducted
using a multimodal approach based on Whisper-Large.
Additional Labels Macro-F1 Acc Min. mAP
Not Included 0.406 53.46 0.328
2nd Emotions 0.409 54.26 0.322
Emotion Attributes 0.407 53.42 0.305
2nd Emotions + Attributes 0.411 54.53 0.316
Whisper-Large V3 under both speech-only and multimodal con-
ditions that are trained using only the training set. Our results in
Table 2 indicate that the selection of the pre-trained model has
a notable impact on SER performance, with Whisper-Large V3
consistently outperforming WavLM Large. One plausible rea-
son for this advantage is the larger dataset used to train Whisper-
Large V3, which likely yields a more generalizable speech rep-
resentation for downstream tasks. We wish to highlight that
even a simple unimodal WavLM Large solution could yield a
test macro-F1 score above 0.37, achieving the top 30 ranks (out
of 166 submissions) in the leaderboard.
4.2. Does Data Augmentation Impact SER?
Next, we explore the impact of data augmentation on SER per-
formance, comparing results with and without augmentation.
Specifically, we evaluate audio mixing, annotation dropout, and
their combination within the Whisper-Large multimodal setup,
as presented in Table 3. We want to highlight that, in this exper-
iment, we included speech samples with ’other’ and ’no agree-
ment’ labels from the development set as training data. While
the results show no improvement in overall accuracy, both aug-
mentation techniques improve SER performance, as measured
by the macro-F1 score. Additionally, the minority class aver-
age precision indicates that both augmentation techniques are
beneficial in improving predictions for minority classes.
4.3. Does Predicting Additional Labels Impact SER?
This section investigates whether multitask learning with addi-
tional emotion annotations, such as secondary emotions or at-
tribute scores (e.g., arousal), benefits SER performance. We
conduct our experiments using the same settings as in the data
augmentation experiments, where audio mixing and annotation
dropout are applied. The results indicate that incorporating ad-
ditional prediction targets can improve the overall macro-F1
score. However, we observe a decline in performance for mi-
nority classes. It is worth noting that a single system that pre-
dicts both primary and secondary emotions, as shown in Ta-
ble 5, achieves a top-15 ranking on the leaderboard. Although
we have not yet tested all models listed in Table 5, we antici-
pate that the best-performing single system might be sufficient
Table 5: Comparisons between the best single system and the
3-system ensembles. Our 3-system ensembles achieve a macro-
F1 score above 0.41 on the test set.
System Ensembles Macro-F1 Acc Min. mAP
Best Single System 0.411 54.53 0.316
2-System Ensemble 0.424 56.17 0.321
3-System Ensemble 0.431 57.00 0.325
to achieve approximately 0.41 macro-F1 on the test set.
4.4. How many system ensembles are needed?
Following our design philosophy of prioritizing simplicity and
reproducibility while avoiding complex ensembles, we limit our
implementation to a maximum of three systems. Encourag-
ingly, we found that an ensemble of three systems is sufficient to
achieve a ranked performance on the leaderboard. Specifically,
our ensemble includes system-1, the unimodal WavLM-Large
model; system-2, a multimodal Whisper-Large model with mul-
titask learning of secondary emotions; system-3, a multimodal
Whisper-Large model with multitask learning of all emotion at-
tributes and secondary emotions. Moreover, we present a two-
system ensemble comprising system-1 and system-2 as a refer-
ence. While integrating additional systems may further improve
SER performance, we leave this exploration for future work.
5. On Further Improvements
While our current system shows competitive performance, we
highlight several promising and easy-to-prototype directions
that researchers can explore for developing next-generation,
state-of-the-art SER systems. One is to study pre-trained speech
models with emotional speech data like Emotion2Vec [21].
Learning Objective. While we use the KL-Divergence as the
loss function, a straightforward approach to model the emotion
distribution, there are other promising alternatives. For exam-
ple, prior work by [18] demonstrated that soft cross-entropy
consistently outperforms KL-Divergence loss.
Audio Mixing. Prior work in [22] has explored similar ideas
of mixing audio for SER. However, unlike our method, they
mix speech samples with the same emotion to increase the con-
fidence levels of the predictions. Thus, a promising research
direction is systematically exploring audio mixing.
Predicting Additional Ground Truth . Although SAILER
considered modeling additional ground-truth labels, such as
secondary emotions from the dataset, other speaker-specific in-
formation, like gender and age information, has not been ex-
plored in this current system. However, emotional expression
can differ significantly across speaker groups. A straightfor-
ward way to improve our system could include sex and/or age
prediction as an additional learning objective.
6. Conclusion
In this work, we describe theSAILER framework, a simple and
reproducible-friendly SER model for categorized motion pre-
diction in task 1 of the IS25-SER challenge.SAILER considers
designs from speech foundation models and learning objectives
to data augmentation and engineering choices to tackle imbal-
anced data. Experimental results show that SAILER is highly
competitive in the IS25-SER challenge, achieving top-tier per-
formance with minimum system complexity.
4646

7. Acknowledgment
We gratefully acknowledge support from IARPA ARTS (award
number 140D0424C0067, JHU subcontract) from the Office of
the Director of National Intelligence and NSF Grant (SCH with
award number 2204942).
8. References
[1] R. Bommasani, D. A. Hudson, E. Adeli, R. Altman, S. Arora,
S. von Arx, M. S. Bernstein, J. Bohg, A. Bosselut, E. Brunskill
et al. , “On the opportunities and risks of foundation models,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.07258, 2021.
[2] J. Wagner, A. Triantafyllopoulos, H. Wierstorf, M. Schmitt,
F. Burkhardt, F. Eyben, and B. W. Schuller, “Dawn of the trans-
former era in speech emotion recognition: closing the valence
gap,” IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intel-
ligence, vol. 45, no. 9, pp. 10 745–10 759, 2023.
[3] C.-C. Lee, T. Chaspari, E. M. Provost, and S. S. Narayanan, “An
engineering view on emotions and speech: From analysis and pre-
dictive models to responsible human-centered applications,” Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE, vol. 111, no. 10, pp. 1142–1158, 2023.
[4] E. Mower, A. Metallinou, C.-C. Lee, A. Kazemzadeh, C. Busso,
S. Lee, and S. S. Narayanan, “Interpreting ambiguous emotional
expressions,” in Proceedings of the International Conference on
Affective Computing and Intelligent Interaction (ACII) , Amster-
dam, The Netherlands, sep 2009.
[5] W.-S. Chien, S. G. Upadhyay, and C.-C. Lee, “Balancing speaker-
rater fairness for gender-neutral speech emotion recognition,” in
ICASSP 2024-2024 IEEE International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) . IEEE, 2024, pp.
11 861–11 865.
[6] B. M. Booth and S. S. Narayanan, “People make mistakes: Ob-
taining accurate ground truth from continuous annotations of sub-
jective constructs,” Behavior Research Methods , vol. 56, no. 8,
pp. 8784–8800, 2024.
[7] L. Goncalves, A. N. Salman, A. R. Naini, L. M. Velazquez,
T. Thebaud, L. P. Garcia, N. Dehak, B. Sisman, and C. Busso,
“Odyssey 2024-speech emotion recognition challenge: Dataset,
baseline framework, and results,”Development, vol. 10, no. 9,290,
pp. 4–54, 2024.
[8] M. Chen, H. Zhang, Y . Li, J. Luo, W. Wu, Z. Ma, P. Bell, C. Lai,
J. D. Reiss, L. Wang, P. C. Woodland, X. Chen, H. Phan, and
T. Hain, “1st place solution to odyssey emotion recognition chal-
lenge task1: Tackling class imbalance problem,” in The Speaker
and Language Recognition Workshop (Odyssey 2024) , 2024, pp.
260–265.
[9] F. Costa, M. India, and J. Hernando, “Double multi-head attention
multimodal system for odyssey 2024 speech emotion recognition
challenge,” in The Speaker and Language Recognition Workshop
(Odyssey 2024), 2024, pp. 266–273.
[10] A. R. Naini, L. Goncalves, A. N. Salman, P. Mote, I. R. ¨Ulgen,
T. Thebaud, L. Velazquez, L. P. Garcia, N. Dehak, B. Sisman, and
C. Busso, “The interspeech 2025 challenge on speech emotion
recognition in naturalistic conditions,” in Interspeech 2025, vol.
To appear, Rotterdam, The Netherlands, August 2025.
[11] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak
supervision,” in International conference on machine learning .
PMLR, 2023, pp. 28 492–28 518.
[12] S. Chen, C. Wang, Z. Chen, Y . Wu, S. Liu, Z. Chen, J. Li,
N. Kanda, T. Yoshioka, X. Xiaoet al., “Wavlm: Large-scale self-
supervised pre-training for full stack speech processing,” IEEE
Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing , vol. 16, no. 6,
pp. 1505–1518, 2022.
[13] L. Pepino, P. Riera, and L. Ferrer, “Emotion recognition from
speech using wav2vec 2.0 embeddings,” in Interspeech 2021 ,
2021, pp. 3400–3404.
[14] T. Feng and S. Narayanan, “Foundation model assisted automatic
speech emotion recognition: Transcribing, annotating, and aug-
menting,” in ICASSP 2024-2024 IEEE International Conference
on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) . IEEE,
2024, pp. 12 116–12 120.
[15] T. Feng et al., “Peft-ser: On the use of parameter efficient trans-
fer learning approaches for speech emotion recognition using pre-
trained speech models,” in2023 11th International Conference on
Affective Computing and Intelligent Interaction (ACII) . IEEE,
2023, pp. 1–8.
[16] Y . Li, P. Bell, and C. Lai, “Fusing asr outputs in joint training for
speech emotion recognition,” in ICASSP 2022-2022 IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP). IEEE, 2022, pp. 7362–7366.
[17] E. Mower, M. J. Mataric, and S. S. Narayanan, “A framework for
automatic human emotion classification using emotional profiles,”
IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing ,
vol. 19, no. 5, pp. 1057–1070, 2011.
[18] H.-C. Chou, L. Goncalves, S.-G. Leem, A. N. Salman, C.-C.
Lee, and C. Busso, “Minority views matter: Evaluating speech
emotion classifiers with human subjective annotations by an all-
inclusive aggregation rule,”IEEE Transactions on Affective Com-
puting, 2024.
[19] R. Lotfian and C. Busso, “Building naturalistic emotionally bal-
anced speech corpus by retrieving emotional speech from existing
podcast recordings,” IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing,
vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 471–483, 2017.
[20] Y . Liu, M. Ott, N. Goyal, J. Du, M. Joshi, D. Chen, O. Levy,
M. Lewis, L. Zettlemoyer, and V . Stoyanov, “Roberta: A
robustly optimized bert pretraining approach,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1907.11692, 2019.
[21] Z. Ma, Z. Zheng, J. Ye, J. Li, Z. Gao, S. Zhang, and X. Chen,
“emotion2vec: Self-supervised pre-training for speech emotion
representation,” in Findings of the Association for Computational
Linguistics ACL 2024, 2024, pp. 15 747–15 760.
[22] A. Dang, T. H. Vu, J.-C. Wang et al., “Emix: a data augmentation
method for speech emotion recognition,” in ICASSP 2023-2023
IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–5.
4647
