Evaluating Wav2V ec2-Bert for Computer-Assisted Pronunciation Training for
isiZulu
Alexandra Fort1, Francis Tyers1
1Computational Linguistics, Indiana University, USA
aconeil@iu.edu, ftyers@iu.edu
Abstract
Pronunciation training is essential for learning a second lan-
guage, but tools for computer-assisted pronunciation training
have only been developed for a small subset of languages.
Through creating and evaluating three fine-tuned versions of
Wav2Vec2-Bert, this paper investigates the performance of
Wav2Vec2-Bert for detecting language learner errors in low-
resource settings. The results provide insight into how the data
used for fine-tuning can impact performance and a thorough
analysis of erroneous predictions. The evaluation of Wav2Vec2-
Bert for this task offers a case study of an under-resourced lan-
guage and suggestions for how a large-language model can be
used to develop pronunciation training tools in under-resourced
settings.
Index Terms: speech recognition, computer-assisted pronunci-
ation training, under-resourced languages
1. Introduction
In second language acquisition, the effectiveness of pronunci-
ation instruction for improving learner speech is well-attested
[1]. In the traditional setting, used by many without access to
computer-assisted pronunciation tools (CAPT) [2], pronuncia-
tion instruction requires access to a speaker or teacher of the
language, while in modern settings this may require access to
a computer or smartphone. Having access to CAPT tools in
the target language is especially helpful for learners who do not
have access to a formal classroom or speaker [3]. CAPT also
has the potential to aid those in traditional learning settings,
as one-on-one pronunciation instruction is limited in language
classrooms [4], and lowers the anxiety associated with pronun-
ciation practice for students [5].
Recent research has explored how advancements in com-
putational linguistics apply to the detection of errors in the
speech of language learners in order to improve CAPT [6, 7, 8].
Research on mispronunciation detection and diagnosis (MDD)
forms the basis for building CAPT tools and normally takes one
of three approaches: evaluating the Goodness of Pronunciation
(GOP) of the utterance, using a set of phonological rules to in-
form detection and diagnosis, or using an end-to-end Automatic
Speech Recognition (ASR) model [9].
The method of using an end-to-end ASR model is
well-suited to low-resource contexts as there are many
multilingually-trained models available that can be used with
little or no additional training data [10, 11, 12]. This study
aims to expand on research about the effectiveness of us-
ing multilingually-trained ASR systems for CAPT in under-
resourced settings by evaluating the performance of a state-of-
the-art model on isiZulu. IsiZulu provides an interesting case
study due to the inclusion of typologically rare phonemes, such
as the implosive, lateral fricatives and clicks, in the language’s
phonetic inventory. Additionally, phonemic aspiration contrasts
are present, which test the model’s ability to distinguish be-
tween phonemes that are in allophonic variation in some of its
training languages.
The goal of this work is to evaluate one of the latest multi-
lingual ASR models, Wav2Vec2-Bert from Meta AI, for the task
of detecting phoneme errors in isiZulu language learner speech.
This paper presents a thorough analysis of the errors made by
the models alongside a discussion about how the data used for
fine-tuning impacts these errors. The methodology used in this
paper is transparent and replicable with the goal of enhancing
the reproducibility of the work for other under-resourced lan-
guages. Additionally, the results aid in future research on the
development of a CAPT tool for isiZulu.
2. Literature Review
Many works use a Wav2Vec 2.0 model for MDD on English
[13, 14, 15], facilitated by the large second language (L2)
speech corpora with annotation of phonetic errors, TIMIT [16]
and L2-arctic [17]. [18] explore the ability of Wav2Vec 2.0
to perform MDD on these popular English L2 speech corpora
and find that Wav2Vec 2.0 can successfully perform MDD in
ultra-low resource settings with limited fine-tuning data. Use
of Wav2Vec 2.0 for MDD has been coupled with Goodness of
Pronunciation and Automatic Pronunciation Assessment, both
to improve MDD through multitask learning [19] and to im-
prove intelligibility scoring [20]. [21] use momentum pseudo-
labeling to improve the performance of Wav2Vec2.0 for MDD.
[22] analyze the errors produced by Wav2Vec 2.0 on the TIMIT
dataset. While Wav2Vec2Phoneme can provide phonetic tran-
scription, it is not used in this paper as the cross-lingual se-
lection of phonemes precludes important phoneme contrasts in
isiZulu, such as aspiration and nasalization.
A handful of research papers detail the development of
MDD and CAPT tools for low-resource languages. [23] uses
Wav2Vec 2.0 to develop a CAPT mobile application for the
Finnish language and experiment with methods for reducing the
spikiness of the CTC algorithm’s outputs to improve the quality
of feedback. [24] use XLSR-53 to create a CAPT system for the
Atayal language, reporting an underperformance of the model
on the typologically rare sound [G]. [25] boost the performance
of Wav2Vec 2.0 for Vietnamese by adding a linguistic encoder
to the model. [26] uses a M ¨aori specific RNN in the automatic
assessment of pepeha speech and reports that the continuous
speech used to train the model may interfere with its ability to
process learner speech. This paper builds on these works by
presenting the work on isiZulu as a case study with the latest
Meta AI model and then adding an analysis of the cross-lingual
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2160 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2400

considerations that shape the results.
3. Datasets
Two open-source datasets are used for fine-tuning models: one
consisting of language learner data annotated for computer-
assisted pronunciation training (CAPT) in isiZulu and one pro-
viding supplementary data from native speakers in isiZulu for
training and testing the models. Using both a language learner
corpus and a native speaker speech corpus gives insights into
how data type and quantity impact CAPT tools that use these
models.
3.1. IsiZulu Second Language Learner Speech Corpus
The isiZulu Second Language Learner Speech Corpus (isiZulu
L2 corpus) [27] consists of recordings from 12 students of
isiZulu and 3 isiZulu teachers. The students and teachers read
from the same list of 831 sentences and student recordings
include annotation for phoneme mispronunciations and inser-
tions. Each phoneme in an utterance receives a score of 1 or
0, with 1 marking correct pronunciation and 0 marking incor-
rect. Insertions are marked using their index in the sentence.
Tone errors are also annotated in this corpus, but tone falls out-
side of the scope of this study since it is not orthographically
marked. The recordings from teachers in this corpus demon-
strate the correct pronunciation of the sentences.
3.2. NCHLT isiZulu Auxiliary Speech Corpus
The National Centre for Human Language Technology
(NCHLT) corpus [28] is an open-source corpus that is designed
to be used in the development of speech technologies for the
11 official spoken languages of South Africa, one of which is
isiZulu. The section of the corpus used in this research comes
from the nchlt-clean split of the dataset wherein a phone-based
dynamic programming (PDP) score was used to determine the
recordings with the highest reliability to the prompt.
The Zulu language split has 56 hours and 14 minutes of
transcribed recordings from 210 speakers (98 Male; 112 Fe-
male). Each recording consists of a speaker reading three
words. The prompts for this split were sourced from South
African government websites, with the most frequent trigrams
selected as prompts. The transcriptions of the recordings are in
the isiZulu orthography.
4. Methodology
4.1. Fine-tuning
Using the datasets, three separate models were fine-tuned on
Wav2Vec2-BERT [11]. Wav2Vec2-Bert is the latest model from
Meta AI and uses training data from 143 languages, including
67 hours of ASR data from isiZulu. Wav2Vec2-Bert is cho-
sen due to its reported ability to perform low-resource transfer
learning for any language and its inclusion of isiZulu training
data. The model requires fine-tuning to be used for ASR tasks
but needs a limited amount of data, which is well-suited to this
paper’s setting and other low-resource settings.
The first model for this paper was fine-tuned on the 2,493
gold-standard teacher pronunciations from the isiZulu L2 Cor-
pus, the second was fine-tuned on 41871 recordings from the
training split of the NCHLT corpus, and the third was fine-tuned
on both the teachers’ pronunciations from the isiZulu L2 Cor-
pus and the training split of the NCHLT corpus. The fine-tuned
versions of these models will be referred to as L2, NCHLT, and
L2NCHLT throughout the paper. The use of data from teachers
in the isiZulu L2 corpus during fine-tuning is particularly inter-
esting as it includes a relatively small set of recordings, but with
a pedagogical recitation style in which the teachers are enunci-
ating clearly in the manner they would use in the classroom.
The fine-tuning data for each model is presented in the stan-
dard isiZulu orthography to utilize the isiZulu data provided in
the base model, wherein standard orthographies were used, not
IPA. The same parameters were used to fine-tune each model.
The description of these parameters and models are available
publicly at https://huggingface.co/aconeil.
4.2. Interpreting Model Outputs
The NCHLT test split is used to provide an evaluation metric for
model comparison. However, these metrics represent the ability
of the model to transcribe native-speaker speech, not second-
language learner errors. To evaluate the ability of the model
to transcribe second-language learner speech, transcriptions are
generated for the student recordings in the isiZulu L2 Corpus.
The use of characters as targets in the masked prediction task
allows the model to predict primary phonemes with accompa-
niments, such as the voiceless aspirated bilabial stop ”ph.” The
fine-tuned Wav2Vec2-BERT models used in this work are not
constrained to in-vocabulary words, especially with the rela-
tively scarce training data. Once the transcriptions are obtained
from each model, the target sentence and the transcription are
converted into an IPA-like representation wherein each con-
trastive phoneme is represented by one character. The one-to-
one phoneme-to-character representation facilitates alignment
by minimizing instances of features of the sound (aspiration,
voicing, nasalization) being interpreted as separate characters
by the alignment algorithm.
The Needleman-Wunsch algorithm [29] is used to align the
utterances to each other. This algorithm comes from bioin-
formatics and is traditionally used to align sequences of nu-
cleotides, but can be applied to any two strings. The imple-
mentation of the algorithm used in this paper scores by using a
plus one for matches and a minus one for deletions and inser-
tions. The aligned sequences are then processed to produce a
score that matches the binary format of the teacher’s feedback
while extracting the indices of insertions as a list. The algorithm
produces ”-” for the sequences identified as insertions. Follow-
ing the method used in the isiZulu L2 Corpus, sequential inser-
tions are processed as one index, and utterance-final insertions
are coded as ’EOS.’ Table 1 shows an example of the align-
ment produced for the sentence ”Ningawuphuzi” [ niNawuphzi]
(eng:Don’t (you all) drink it).
Table 1: Alignment example with 1 phoneme error and 1 inser-
tion error
Target - n i N a w u ph u z i
Model i N i N a w u ph u z i
Score [0] 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
5. Results
5.1. Native Speaker Speech Transcription
The results for assessment on native speaker speech below show
that the model trained only on the NCHLT data performs the
best. The metrics for the L2NCHLT model show that adding
the teacher recordings slightly diminishes performance. The L2
2161

Figure 1: Percentage of errors identified for each phoneme by each model
model does poorly when evaluated on just the NCHLT test data,
likely due to the stark domain difference between the speech
in the NCHLT corpus, which features naturalistic L1 speaker
speech, and the recordings from the teachers, which depict care-
ful pronunciation. All models have a much lower character er-
ror rate than word error rate, which is likely attributed to the
agglutinating nature of isiZulu in which words contain more
characters when compared to isolating languages.
The Wav2Vec2-Bert NCHLT and L2NCHLT fine-tuned
models outperform all other models evaluated on the same test
set [28, 30, 31]. As research on isiZulu ASR is limited, there are
not many isiZulu ASR models to use as comparison, with even
fewer having documentation. These two models perform com-
petitively to models found on HuggingFace from asr-africa and
TheirStory, with the addition of access to the code used for fine-
tuning at https://github.com/aconeil/zulu_mdd
and access to the datasets to allow for reproducibility.
Table 2: Model results on NCHLT test data using Word Error
Rate (WER) and Character Error Rate (CER)
Model WER CER
L2 0.667 0.143
NCHLT 0.126 0.0237
L2+NCHLT 0.141 0.0252
5.2. Second Language Error Transcription
This study considers phoneme deletions, mispronunciations,
and insertions as labeled in the isiZulu L2 corpus, but does
not consider tone, as tone is not orthographically marked in
isiZulu. The binary error transcription from the teachers is used
in section 5.2.1 and the insert index is used in section 5.2.2. In
cases where the database has competing feedback from differ-
ent teachers, the feedback that identifies more errors is chosen.
5.2.1. Phoneme mispronunciations and deletions
This is the first work on isiZulu pronunciation error detection,
so an exploration of model performance is provided, as there
is not a state-of-the-art model with which to compare. Since
the gold-standard feedback marks binary errors in pronuncia-
tion without information about the phoneme produced by the
learner, it is not possible to calculate the diagnostic error rate
(DER) for this dataset. Instead, the true negative rate is pro-
vided. Table 3 provides the false acceptance rate (FAR), false
rejection rate (FRR), and true negative rate (TNR) for each
model. FAR represents the rate at which the model failed to
identify a mispronounced phoneme, while FRR represents the
rate at which the model marked a phoneme as incorrect when it
was pronounced correctly. TNR indicates the probability of an
incorrect phoneme being identified as incorrect by the model.
Table 3: Model results for false acceptance rate (FAR), false
rejection rate (FRR), and true negative rate (TRN).
Model FAR FRR TNR
L2 2.2% 16.1% 65.1%
NCHLT 3.1% 7.0% 50.8%
L2+NCHLT 3.2% 9.7% 48.6%
True Negative Rate
Considering the true negative rate, the model fine-tuned on just
the L2 corpus performs the best, demonstrating that it identifies
the most incorrect phonemes compared to the gold standard.
Figure 1 shows the percentage of mispronunciations identified
by each model based on the target phoneme.
The models struggle to identify the mispronunciation of the
voiced bilabial implosive [ á] and the lateral fricatives [ ì] and
[ŋ]. As these sounds are typologically rare, this may be due to a
deficit in data for these sounds in the base model. The voiceless
postalveolar fricative [S] is also rarely labeled as incorrect. Ad-
ditionally, we see that the careful pronunciation provided in the
teachers’ recordings seems to benefit the L2 model in identify-
ing pronunciation errors for plain voiceless stops [p], [t], and
[k]. For the click consonants, the models do fairly well, with
some clicks showing a slight boost from the careful pronuncia-
tion in the L2 corpus [˜{], [˜{
ˇ
], [!h], and [!ˇ], while the others ben-
efit more or equally from increased instances of pronunciation,
as seen in the NCHLT corpus.
False Acceptance Rate
Figure 2 shows the results for the 8 phonemes that were most
commonly accepted by the models, despite teachers marking
the phoneme as a mispronunciation. The y-axis shows the num-
ber of misidentified errors normalized by the total count of that
target phoneme in the corpus. Half of these phonemes are
clicks, with the NCHLT and L2NCHLT models generally miss-
ing more of these errors. Of the click consonants identified on
this chart, there is representation for the co-articulation features
of voicing, nasalization, and a combination of the two, suggest-
ing detection issues may be heightened by the presence of one
or more of these features. In addition to click consonants, plain
stop consonants ([p] and [k]) pose a challenge to the NCHLT
and L2NCHLT models, while the voiced glottal fricative [H] is
2162

frequently misidentified by the L2 and L2NCHLT model. All
three models perform similarly for the bilabial voiced implo-
sive [á], which could be a result of limited instances in the base
model’s training data, as [á] is a typologically rare sound.
Figure 2: 8 phonemes most commonly accepted by models, de-
spite mispronunciation.
False Rejection Rate
Figure 3 shows phonemes that the models incorrectly labeled as
errors 25% or more of the time. Despite the inclusion of careful
speech in the L2 fine-tuning data, clicks are the most problem-
atic for the L2 model. The inclusion of extra instances of clicks
from the NCHLT dataset appears to minimize the number of
false rejections, as the NCHLT model has fewer false rejections
for 7/12 clicks. This indicates the high performance of the L2
model on the detection of click errors in 1 is at least partially
attributed to the model frequently labeling these phonemes as
incorrect. Further, the L2 model is more likely to falsely reject
pronunciations of plain voiceless stop consonants [p], [t], and
[k], which is also matched by a boost in identified true nega-
tives in figure 1.
Figure 3: Correct phonemes rejected 25% or more of the time.
5.2.2. Phoneme Insertions
Of the 1,481 insertions labeled in the isiZulu L2 corpus, mod-
els were generally eager to suggest insertions, but indices of-
ten did not match those in the isiZulu L2 corpus. The NCHLT
fine-tuned model identifies the most insertion errors. However,
the combined L2NCHLT model has the highest precision score
for the identification of insertion errors, likely benefiting from
an improved tokenization ability, as demonstrated by the lower
percentage of false rejections of whitespace shown in Figure 3.
Figure 4 shows phoneme environments in which one or
more of the models missed insertions 90% or more of the time.
The models show varying performance for many of the envi-
ronments. If the model’s bar is not showing on the graph, it
indicates the model did not find any of the insertions in that en-
vironment. The NCHLT model identifies the most insertions in
Table 4: Model results for identifying sound insertions.
Model Suggested Correct Precision
L2 2549 402 15.8
NCHLT 3700 434 11.7
L2+NCHLT 2265 393 17.4
these challenging environments, but as shown in table 4, this
comes at the expense of precision. While the analysis of the
environments of missed insertions is presented to provide lin-
guistic guidance for improving future models, further analysis
of the incorrectly suggested indices is recommended to provide
more context for these suggestions.
Figure 4: Insertions missed more than 90% of the time by envi-
ronment. ‘ ’ represents location of insert.
The results show that the models struggle with detecting in-
sertions between a vowel and a consonant or a consonant and
a vowel, as is required by isiZulu’s strict (C)V syllable struc-
ture. These consonants and vowels do show a pattern, the vow-
els are [a], [i], and [u], and the consonants are either alveolar
consonants ([n], [l], and [s]) or the voiceless velar stop [k]. As
continuant consonants, it may be harder for the model to find
the boundary between the consonant and the vowel for [s] and
[l]. This may also hold true for [n] as a sonorant, but, if so, it is
unclear why [m] and [N] do not produce a similar challenge for
the model.
6. Conclusion and Future Work
The results in this paper suggest that Wav2Vec2-Bert can pro-
vide a baseline for phonemic pronunciation detection in isiZulu.
Evaluation on L1 speech shows that the NCHLT and L2NCHLT
models exceed and outperform leading isiZulu ASR models.
While more data is often considered better, fine-tuning with a
smaller specialized corpus, in our case the isiZulu L2 corpus,
is found to perform adequately for the task of mispronunciation
detection, though with a higher tendency to overidentify errors.
Suggesting that performance on standard WER and CER for
native speaker speech data is not indicative of the model’s per-
formance on mispronunciation detection for L2 speech.
Typologically rare sounds, such as [á],[ì] and [ŋ], are chal-
lenging for all of the models, suggesting the issue is present in
the base Wav2Vec2-Bert model prior to fine-tuning. However,
click consonants break from this pattern and are overidentified
as errors, raising the FRR for models. The models may have
an easier time distinguishing clicks but fail to classify mispro-
nunciations according to the articulatory features of the clicks.
Further evaluation of the performance of Wav2Vec2-Bert for
isiZulu L2 speech should include a speaker or linguist validation
for the model-proposed diagnosis of mispronounced phonemes.
2163

7. Acknowledgments
This research was supported in part by Lilly Endowment, Inc.,
through its support for the Indiana University Pervasive Tech-
nology Institute.
8. References
[1] J. Lee, J. Jang, and L. Plonsky, “The effectiveness of second lan-
guage pronunciation instruction: A meta-analysis,” Applied Lin-
guistics, vol. 36, no. 3, pp. 345–366, 2015.
[2] P. M. Rogerson-Revell, “Computer-assisted pronunciation train-
ing (capt): Current issues and future directions,” Relc Journal,
vol. 52, no. 1, pp. 189–205, 2021.
[3] Y .-T. Sung, K.-E. Chang, and J.-M. Yang, “How effective
are mobile devices for language learning? a meta-analysis,”
Educational Research Review , vol. 16, pp. 68–84, 2015. [On-
line]. Available: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/S1747938X15000469
[4] J. Levis, “Computer technology in teaching and researching pro-
nunciation,” Annual review of applied linguistics , vol. 27, pp.
184–202, 2007.
[5] M. Szyszka, “Pronunciation learning strategies and language anx-
iety,”Switzerland: Springer, vol. 10, pp. 978–3, 2017.
[6] K. Li, X. Qian, and H. Meng, “Mispronunciation detection and
diagnosis in l2 english speech using multidistribution deep neural
networks,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Lan-
guage Processing, vol. 25, no. 1, pp. 193–207, 2016.
[7] M. Lounis, B. Dendani, and H. Bahi, “Mispronunciation detection
and diagnosis using deep neural networks: a systematic review,”
Multimedia Tools and Applications, pp. 1–35, 2024.
[8] B.-C. Yan and B. Chen, “End-to-end mispronunciation detection
and diagnosis from raw waveforms,” in 2021 29th European Sig-
nal Processing Conference (EUSIPCO). IEEE, 2021, pp. 61–65.
[9] N. Alrashoudi, H. Al-Khalifa, and Y . Alotaibi, “Improving mis-
pronunciation detection and diagnosis for non-native learners of
the arabic language,” Discover Computing, vol. 28, no. 1, p. 1,
2025.
[10] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak
supervision,” in International conference on machine learning .
PMLR, 2023, pp. 28 492–28 518.
[11] L. Barrault, Y .-A. Chung, M. C. Meglioli, D. Dale, N. Dong,
M. Duppenthaler, P.-A. Duquenne, B. Ellis, H. Elsahar, J. Haa-
heim et al. , “Seamless: Multilingual expressive and streaming
speech translation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.05187, 2023.
[12] A. Hannun, “Deep speech: Scaling up end-to-end speech recog-
nition,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.5567, 2014.
[13] J. I. Kim, S. Kim, and M. Chung, “Developing a robust mispro-
nunciation detection by data augmentation based on automatic
phone annotation,” in 2024 27th Conference of the Oriental CO-
COSDA International Committee for the Co-ordination and Stan-
dardisation of Speech Databases and Assessment Techniques (O-
COCOSDA). IEEE, 2024, pp. 1–5.
[14] J. M. Dalhouse and K. Itou, “Cross-lingual transfer learning ap-
proach to phoneme error detection via latent phonetic representa-
tion.” in INTERSPEECH, 2022, pp. 3133–3137.
[15] M. A. H. Wadud, M. Alatiyyah, and M. Mridha, “Non-
autoregressive end-to-end neural modeling for automatic pronun-
ciation error detection,” Applied Sciences, vol. 13, no. 1, p. 109,
2022.
[16] J. S. Garofolo, L. F. Lamel, W. M. Fisher, J. G. Fiscus, and D. S.
Pallett, “Darpa timit acoustic-phonetic continous speech corpus
cd-rom. nist speech disc 1-1.1,”NASA STI/Recon technical report
n, vol. 93, p. 27403, 1993.
[17] G. Zhao, S. Sonsaat, A. Silpachai, I. Lucic, E. Chukharev-
Hudilainen, J. M. Levis, and R. Gutierrez-Osuna, “L2-arctic: A
non-native english speech corpus,” inInterspeech, 2018. [Online].
Available: https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:52190513
[18] L. Peng, K. Fu, B. Lin, D. Ke, and J. Zhang, “A study on fine-
tuning wav2vec2. 0 model for the task of mispronunciation detec-
tion and diagnosis.” in Interspeech, 2021, pp. 4448–4452.
[19] H. Ryu, S. Kim, and M. Chung, “A joint model for pronunci-
ation assessment and mispronunciation detection and diagnosis
with multi-task learning,” in INTERSPEECH, 2023.
[20] R. C. Shekar, M. Yang, K. Hirschi, S. Looney, O. Kang, and
J. H. Hansen, “Assessment of non-native speech intelligibility us-
ing wav2vec2-based mispronunciation detection and multi-level
goodness of pronunciation transformer,” ISCA INTERSPEECH-
2023, 2023.
[21] M. Yang, K. Hirschi, S. Looney, O. Kang, and J. Hansen, “Im-
proving mispronunciation detection with wav2vec2-based mo-
mentum pseudo-labeling for accentedness and intelligibility as-
sessment,” in INTERSPEECH, 09 2022, pp. 4481–4485.
[22] E. Loweimi, A. Carmantini, P. Bell, S. Renals, and Z. Cvetkovic,
“Phonetic error analysis beyond phone error rate,” IEEE/ACM
Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, 2023.
[23] N. Phan, T. Gr ´osz, and M. Kurimo, “Captaina-a mobile app for
practising finnish pronunciation,” in Nordic Conference on Com-
putational Linguistics. University of Tartu Library, 2023, pp.
265–270.
[24] Y .-L. Chuang, H.-R. Hsu, Y .-W. Liu, C.-T. Hsinet al., “Computer-
assisted pronunciation training system for atayal, an indigenous
language in taiwan,” in2024 27th Conference of the Oriental CO-
COSDA International Committee for the Co-ordination and Stan-
dardisation of Speech Databases and Assessment Techniques (O-
COCOSDA). IEEE, 2024, pp. 1–6.
[25] T. Nguyen and H. D. Tran, “Lingwav2vec2: Linguistic-
augmented wav2vec 2.0 for vietnamese mispronunciation detec-
tion,” in Proc. Interspeech 2024, 2024, pp. 2355–2359.
[26] C. I. Watson, P. Allen, P. J. Keegan, K. Mahelona, and P.-L. Jones,
“Towards automatic marking of pepeha: a formulaic m ¯aori lan-
guage speech,” in 2nd Annual Meeting of the Special Interest
Group on Under-resourced Languages2nd Annual Meeting of the
Special Interest Group on Under-resourced Languages, 2023.
[27] A. O’Neil, N. Hjortnaes, F. Tyers, Z. Nkosi, T. Ndlovu,
Z. Mlondo, and N. P. Pewa, “Developing a benchmark
for pronunciation feedback: Creation of a phonemically
annotated speech corpus of isiZulu language learner speech,”
in Proceedings of the 2024 Joint International Conference on
Computational Linguistics, Language Resources and Evaluation
(LREC-COLING 2024) , N. Calzolari, M.-Y . Kan, V . Hoste,
A. Lenci, S. Sakti, and N. Xue, Eds. Torino, Italia: ELRA
and ICCL, May 2024, pp. 4795–4801. [Online]. Available:
https://aclanthology.org/2024.lrec-main.429/
[28] E. Barnard, M. H. Davel, C. van Heerden, F. De Wet, and
J. Badenhorst, “The nchlt speech corpus of the south african
languages,” in Proc. 4th International Workshop on Spoken
Language Technologies for Under-resourced Languages (SLTU).
Workshop Spoken Language Technologies for Under-resourced
Languages (SLTU), 2014.
[29] S. B. Needleman and C. D. Wunsch, “A general method applicable
to the search for similarities in the amino acid sequence of two
proteins,” Journal of molecular biology , vol. 48, no. 3, pp. 443–
453, 1970.
[30] J. Badenhorst and F. De Wet, “The usefulness of imperfect speech
data for asr development in low-resource languages,”Information,
vol. 10, no. 9, p. 268, 2019.
[31] N. Kleynhans, F. De Wet, and E. Barnard, “Unsupervised acous-
tic model training: comparing south african english and isizulu,”
in 2015 Pattern Recognition Association of South Africa and
Robotics and Mechatronics International Conference (PRASA-
RobMech). IEEE, 2015, pp. 136–141.
2164
