Private kNN-VC: Interpretable Anonymization of Converted Speech
Carlos Franzreb1, Arnab Das1, Tim P olzehl1, Sebastian M¨oller2
1German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence, Germany
2Technical University of Berlin, Germany
carlos.franzreb@dfki.de
Abstract
Speaker anonymization seeks to conceal a speaker’s identity
while preserving the utility of their speech. The achieved privacy
is commonly evaluated with a speaker recognition model trained
on anonymized speech. Although this represents a strong attack,
it is unclear which aspects of speech are exploited to identify the
speakers. Our research sets out to unveil these aspects. It starts
with kNN-VC, a powerful voice conversion model that performs
poorly as an anonymization system, presumably because of prosody
leakage. To test this hypothesis, we extend kNN-VC with two
interpretable components that anonymize the duration and variation
of phones. These components increase privacy significantly, proving
that the studied prosodic factors encode speaker identity and are
exploited by the privacy attack. Additionally, we show that changes
in the target selection algorithm considerably influence the outcome
of the privacy attack.
Index T erms: speaker anonymization, voice conversion, inter-
pretability
1. Introduction
Speaker anonymization has become an active field of research
since the first edition of the V oicePrivacy Challenge (VPC) [1],
which provides an evaluation protocol to assess the strength of
anonymization systems. The evaluation simulates an attack on
the anonymized speech, leveraging a speaker recognition model
trained to discriminate anonymized speakers by learning their
characteristics. In the VPC task, the spoken content is ignored.
Identifying speakers from text is a different task with its own
challenges [2]. Privacy is measured in terms of its trade-off with
utility, which should be preserved throughout anonymization. How
utility is defined depends on the use case; the VPC 2024 [3] focuses
on human perception, measuring utility with speech and emotion
recognition models trained on original speech.
V oice Conversion (VC) models change the speaker identity
of speech from a source speaker to a target speaker [4]. Their
goal is to produce speech with great target similarity, which is
complementary to the anonymization’s goal of concealing the
source speaker. kNN-VC [5] is a popular VC model because of its
simplicity, versatility and the high quality of the converted speech.
It works for multiple languages without re-training the vocoder [6],
and also for any target speaker for which sufficient speech data is
available (5 minutes according to their experiments).
Despite achieving state-of-the-art results on subjective target
speaker similarity, kNN-VC fails to conceal the source speaker’s
identity according to several publications that use the VPC 2024
objective evaluation [6, 7, 8, 9]. Most authors argue that the identity
leakage arises from prosodic features, i.e. the intonational and rhyth-
mic aspects of speech [10]. Recent work has shown that prosody is
leveraged by the attacker of the VPC evaluation to identify speakers
by experimenting with deep prosodic representations [11], pitch con-
tours [12] and phone durations [13, 14], making prosody a good can-
didate for explaining kNN-VC’s poor privacy. However, this hypoth-
esis has not been empirically proven yet. More generally, identifying
the aspects of speech which are exploited by the attacker to identify
anonymized speakers is an active field of research. This is due to the
complex nature of speech, which makes model explainability chal-
lenging [15], as well as to the deep architectures used for anonymiza-
tion, whose behavior is unpredictable and hard to understand [16].
Anonymizing different aspects of speech independently can
help us understand how the attacker identifies speakers, as we can
perform ablation studies looking at each aspect individually, as
well as studying their possible combinations. [17] proposes such
an anonymization system, conditioning the vocoder on the phone
durations as well as on the pitch and energy contours of the source
speech. Pitch and energy contours are anonymized by applying a
random percentage offset to each individual value. However, the
system achieves perfect privacy on the VPC 2022 evaluation even
when using the original prosodic features, leaving unclear how the
anonymization of pitch and energy impacts privacy.
We propose a similar approach to enhance the anonymization ca-
pabilities of kNN-VC, targeting two aspects of prosody: the duration
and variation of phones. We anonymize phone durations by predict-
ing new durations from the phonetic transcript of the source speech,
following an approach used for text-to-speech [18]. To manipulate
phonetic variation, we quantize the target speech with k-means clus-
tering. Fewer clusters result in a lower resolution of information
available for the neighbor selection of kNN-VC, thereby restrict-
ing individual expressive characteristics. The two aspects can be
anonymized independently, and in different levels of strength, allow-
ing us to assess their effect in the results of the VPC 2024 evaluation.
In our experiments, we observed that target selection signif-
icantly impacted the privacy outcomes in the VPC 2024 evaluation,
even though our anonymization system performs consistently across
all target speakers, as confirmed by the utility evaluation. This
discrepancy underscores the sensitivity and nuance of privacy
assessment. We conduct additional experiments to analyze the
attacker’s behavior in relation to target speaker selection and discuss
the broader implications of our findings.
The code and weights for the proposed anonymization system
are open-source1. It is implemented in SpAnE [19], where the
inference takes place, and evaluated with the VPC 2024 [3].
2. Anonymization system
kNN-VC [5] is an any-to-any VC model. It first extracts features
from both source and target speech using WavLM [20], a speech
language model. Then, each source feature is replaced with the aver-
1https://github.com/carlosfranzreb/private_
knnvc
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
3224 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-820
Figure 1: Private kNN-VC: purple components are the same as
those of kNN-VC.S is the source speech,T is the target speaker’s
speech, andA is the anonymized speech.
age of its four nearest target features according to cosine similarity.
This works because the representation space of speech language
models like WavLM is heavily influenced by phones [21]. The
converted features are synthesized with a HiFi-GAN vocoder [22]
trained on data that simulates the kNN conversion by replacing the
features of each training sample with others from the same speaker.
We enhance kNN-VC for speaker anonymization by adding
two trained predictors (see Figure 1). The phone predictor assigns a
phone to each WavLM feature, while the duration predictor estimates
the duration of each phone in a phonetic transcript. The transcript
is obtained by removing consecutive occurrences from the sequence
of predicted phones. Both predictors share the same convolutional
architecture as the variance predictors from FastSpeech2 [18].
2.1. Phone predictor
The phone predictor is trained with the same data used by SUPERB
[23] for their phone recognition task. It consists of the Librispeech
train-clean-100dataset [24], for which the aligned phones were
predicted with a g2p model. The alphabet is based on the CMU
dictionary2: there are 41 phones and lexical stress is ignored. 80% of
the data is used for training, 10% for validation and 10% for testing.
We train this predictor with two losses: cross entropy and
connectionist temporal classification (CTC) [25]. Cross entropy
considers the accuracy of each prediction, while CTC considers the
whole phonetic transcript, without duplicates. Combining these two
losses, the resulting phone predictor is both accurate and produces a
clean phonetic transcript. (ACC=92% and PER=2% on the held-out
test set). It took 4 hours to train on one NVIDIA RTXA6000 GPU.
2.2. Controlling the phonetic variation
Recent work on voice conversion shows that quantizing features
of speech language models can be used for manipulating voice
characteristics [26] and disentangling prosodic features [ 27].
Inspired by their approaches, we use the phone predictor to quantize
the target features. We group the target features based on their
predicted phones, and then cluster each group with k-means [28].
The cluster centers are used for the conversion step instead of
the target features. The number of clusters determines how many
representations of each phone are available for the conversion,
which ultimately controls the phonetic variation of the anonymized
speech. As the clustering already aggregates features, each source
feature is exchanged with its nearest cluster center, rather than
averaging the four nearest neighbors as in kNN-VC.
2http://www.speech.cs.cmu.edu/cgi-bin/cmudict
2.3. Duration predictor
The duration predictor is trained like the one from FastSpeech2 [18],
with 24 hours of speech from a single LJSpeech speaker [29]. and
the mean squared error (MSE) loss. For a given speech sample, the
true duration of each phone is its number of consecutive predictions
by our phone predictor. Improvement on the validation set stagnates
after 20 epochs. The test loss is MSE=4.4. Once the true durations
have been computed, training the duration predictor takes less than
a minute in an Apple M1 chip. At inference time, the predicted
durations are applied by evenly sampling features from the actual
range of source features. For example, if a phone has a true duration
of 5 features, but the predicted duration is 3, we remove the second
and fourth features. If the predicted duration is larger than the true
duration, we duplicate the intermediate features.
Since the duration predictor is trained on data from a single
speaker, its predictions are not conditioned on the target speaker
selected for anonymization, hindering target fidelity. However, our
goals are to protect the source speaker’s identity and to preserve
the speech’s utility; neither is compromised by poor target fidelity.
2.4. Nomenclature for model configurations
The degrees of manipulation for the duration and variation of phones
are defined by two parameters. The first parameter is the weightw∈
[0,1], assigned to the predicted durationsp. They are summed with
the true durationst, whose weight is1−w, to produce the durations
d, as shown in Equation 1 below. The second parameter is the
number of clusters used to quantize the target features of each phone.
The two parameter values are used to identify each configuration.
For clarity,w is expressed as a number between 1 and 10. For
example, a configuration withw =0.7 and 8 clusters is named(7-8).
d=w·p+(1−w)·t (1)
3. Evaluation
We evaluate our anonymization system with the official imple-
mentation of the VPC 2024 [3]. As target speakers, we use 100
speakers from the LibriTTS [30] train-other-500dataset, evenly
distributed across genders. The target selection algorithm randomly
selects a target speaker while preserving the source speaker’s gender.
It is applied independently to each utterance, allowing different
utterances from the same source to be anonymized with different
target speakers.
Privacy is measured with a speaker recognition model trained
on anonymized Librispeechtrain-clean-360data [24], and evaluated
on a verification setup with the Librispeech test-clean dataset.
Speaker embeddings of trial and enrollment utterances are compared
with cosine similarity. The evaluation metric is the equal error rate
(EER). EER=0% means that all pairs of samples were correctly
recognized, and EER=50% is the best achievable result in terms
of privacy. We average results for male and female trials, which
are reported separately by the VPC 2024 framework. For a few
configurations, the male EER was up to 6% higher than the female
EER; otherwise, the results were similar. For the averaging to be
fair, EER values above 50% are replaced by their subtraction from
100 (i.e. 100−EER). EERs exceeding 50% only occur when the
EER is close to 50%, because of the thresholding procedure.
The VPC 2024 measures utility with models trained on original
data. Intelligibility is estimated with the word error rate (WER)
of a speech recognition model trained on LibriSpeech. Emotion
preservation is estimated with the unweighted average recall (UAR)
of an emotion recognition model trained and evaluated on the
speech samples of IEMOCAP [31]. Recent experiments have
3225
revealed a significant discrepancy between objective and subjective
utility measures in anonymized speech [32]. Note that in our
analysis, the terms intelligibility and emotion preservation are used
exclusively to describe the outcomes of the objective evaluation,
without implying a direct correlation to subjective perception.
4. Experiments
We experiment with different configurations of our model to
investigate how each of the prosodic aspects (duration and variation
of phones) affect the privacy attack. For each parameter, we have
selected four values. Phonetic variation is anonymized with 32, 16
or 8 clusters, or not anonymized, which we define as zero in our
configuration identifiers. Zero means that no clustering is performed,
i.e. all available target features are candidates for the conversion.
Using fewer than eight clusters is possible, but it adversely affects in-
telligibility. For the duration weightw, we use values 0, 0.3, 0.7 and
1. Zero means that the phone durations are not modified, and one
means that the predicted phone durations are used without summing
them with the true durations at all. Each experiment takes roughly
5 hours on a RTXA6000 GPU. We compare the proposed system
with the original kNN-VC and the baselines from the VPC 2024 [3].
4.1. Phone duration and variation
Figures 2 and 3 depict the privacy-utility trade-offs computed with
the VPC 2024 framework. Figure 2 shows a scatter plot of privacy
against intelligibility. The ideal anonymization system would output
highly intelligible speech while enhancing privacy. In the plot, such
a system would lie in the top-right corner. Figure 3 shows privacy
against emotion preservation. In this plot, the ideal anonymization
system would also lie in the top-right corner.
A slight anonymization of the phone duration (w =3) improves
the privacy of kNN-VC from 10% to 15% in terms of EER.
Increasing the weight further increases the EER up to 22.5%. The
difference in EER between(7-0) and (10-0) is negligible. These
results show that phone durations encode speaker identity, and that
the attacker exploits them to recognize the source speakers. Both
intelligibility and emotion preservation decrease monotonically for
increasing values ofw. Compared with the VPC baselines,(7-0)
ranks second in terms of intelligibility with WER=4%, and third
in emotion preservation with UAR=43%, while providing better
privacy than the baselines with better utility (22.2% EER, against
6.1% of B1 and 4.5% of B2). We attribute the loss in intelligibility
to the errors made by our predictors; emotion preservation decreases
because our duration predictor does not consider the emotion of
the source speech, which influences rhythm and stress patterns.
Reducing the phonetic variation of the anonymized speech is
more effective at protecting the source speakers’ identities than
altering phone durations. (0-32), which constitutes the smallest
constraint possible of the phonetic variation in our experiments,
achieves the same EER as the complete anonymization of phone
durations (EER=22.5%). Reducing the number of clusters further
continually improves the EER up to 49.6% for 8 clusters. Regard-
ing utility, reducing the phonetic variation has a lower impact on
intelligibility than altering the phone durations, with a max. WER
of 4.7%. The degradation of emotion preservation is compara-
ble for both anonymization techniques. Our experiments where
both the variation and duration of phones are anonymized show
that these two techniques are complementary.(3-16) achieves an
EER of 49.9% and provides the same utility as(0-16) (WER=4%,
UAR=42%). V ariation can be increased while increasing phone du-
ration anonymization, without a loss in privacy, as shown by(7-32).
4.2. Best configurations
Table 1:VPC 2024 evaluation results. A suffix in our configuration
identifiers means that a different target selection algorithm was used:
c stands for cross-gender;r stands for random, andd for disjoint.
Model Emotion ↑ Intelligibility↓ Privacy↑
UAR (%) WER (%) EER (%)
Original 71 1.8 4.6
B1 43 2.9 6.1
B2 53 10.0 4.5
B3 38 4.4 27.3
B4 43 5.9 30.3
B5 38 4.4 34.3
B6 36 9.1 21.1
kNN-VC 50 2.9 10.4
Ours (0-32) 44 3.5 22.5
Ours (0-8) 41 4.7 49.6
Ours (3-16) 42 4.0 49.9
Ours (7-8) 39 5.7 48.5
Ours (0-32)c 42 3.8 23.4
Ours (0-8)c 38 4.7 49.3
Ours (3-16)c 40 4.2 49.0
Ours (7-8)c 37 5.9 48.8
Ours (0-32)r 42 3.7 17.8
Ours (0-8)r 39 4.8 18.3
Ours (3-16)r 40 4.3 19.1
Ours (7-8)r 37 5.7 26.6
Ours (10-8)r 35 7.3 29.4
Ours (0-8)d,1 40 4.7 48.4
Ours (0-8)d,2 40 4.8 49.4
The configurable nature of our model makes it adaptable to dif-
ferent privacy requirements. The VPC also evaluates models in this
way, to account for different use cases of anonymization [3]. The
motivation behind this is the trade-off between privacy and utility.
Use cases that don’t require as much privacy may therefore benefit
from better utility. Table 1 shows the VPC 2024 evaluation results
for the baselines and some of our configurations. kNN-VC offers
the best utility, but little privacy. Our extensions of it offer gradual
improvements in privacy. Privacy can be improved by reducing the
phonetic variation, with(0-32) doubling the EER of kNN-VC, and
(0-8) achieving almost perfect privacy according to the results of
this evaluation. Removing phone duration anonymization makes
the model simpler and faster, as the duration predictor is not needed.
However, for use cases that require more phonetic variation, the
addition of the phone duration anonymization allows us to increase
the number of clusters without a loss in privacy, as shown by(3-16).
5. Effect of target selection on privacy
Our model picks target speakers randomly, but preserves the gender
of the source speaker. Randomness ensures unlinkability, i.e.
that source speakers cannot be identified by attacking solely the
target selection algorithm [12]. Preserving gender is a reasonable
requirement for many use cases, as it facilitates fairer evaluations
of the anonymized datasets, helping to identify and mitigate
potential biases. Previous work also reports improved target speaker
similarity in other extensions of kNN-VC when same-gender
3226
Figure 2:Privacy vs. intelligibility
 Figure 3:Privacy vs. emotion preservation
 Figure 4:No. of targets vs. privacy
conversion is enforced [33]. We observe similar results: the
configuration identifiers in Table 1 that havec as a suffix refer to
experiments where cross-gender conversion is enforced, instead
of same-gender conversion. Cross-gender conversion decreases
emotion preservation between 2% and 3% UAR. Intelligibility is
also consistently worse, but the difference is marginal. Privacy is
not affected significantly by the gender of the target speaker.
We have also run the same experiments as before, but with
completely random target selection, ignoring gender. The results
are shown in Table 1, where the configuration identifiers haver as a
suffix. The EER of all configurations of our model which achieved
EERs close to 50% under the same-gender constraint decrease
by over 20%. The highest EER achieved for completely random
target selection is 29.4%, obtained with (10-8)r, the strongest
configuration possible in terms of privacy in our experiments. In
this section, we perform two additional experiments to analyze how
target selection affects the efficacy of the attack.
5.1. Effect of gender constraint on privacy
As the privacy achieved by same-gender and cross-gender conver-
sion is similar, we hypothesize that the attacker is being confused by
the two disjoint sets of targets, regardless of the gender distribution of
the two sets. We test this by splitting the 100 target speakers into two
groups, where each group has 25 female and 25 male members. One
group is used to anonymize female source speakers, and the other for
male source speakers. In this way, there are still two disjoint sets of
targets, but they both comprise an even distribution across genders.
We have run this experiment for the two possible combinations of
target set and source gender for the configuration(0-8). The results
of this experiment are reported in Table 1, with the suffixesd,1 and
d,2. These experiments yield the same privacy results as when a gen-
der constraint is placed on the target selection: the EERs are close
to 50%. Thus, it is not gender that is confounding the attacker, but
having two disjoint sets of target speakers, each of them being used
to anonymize roughly half of the training and evaluation samples.
5.2. Effect of number of targets on privacy
The results presented until now suggest that the attacker is learning
particularities about each target, instead of looking for remaining
information about the source speakers in the anonymized speech.
Its ability to recognize speakers is therefore likely to be impacted by
the number of targets used. To test this effect, we have anonymized
our model (7-8) with different numbers of targets. The privacy
results are shown in Figure 4. When target selection is completely
random, privacy saturates at an EER of 27%, achieved with 100
targets. When the same-gender constraint is added to the selection
algorithm, privacy already nears 50% for 25 target speakers.
6. Limitations
We identify three areas of improvement for the proposed system:
privacy, interpretability and emotion preservation.
The large difference in EER when the target selection algorithm
is changed leads us to believe that there is still personally identifiable
information (PII) in the anonymized speech produced by our
system, although the attacker fails to exploit it for certain target
selections. Related work has shown that some selection algorithms
may confound the attacker, leading to an overestimation of privacy
[12]. Same-gender selection seems to be such an algorithm in our
case, but only for certain configurations. Our current experiments
can only discard phone duration as the cause of the privacy leakage;
timbre and phonetic variation could still contain PII. It is also unclear
whether certain target speakers provide better anonymization than
others. Acoustic differences between source and target speakers
could impact the results of the kNN conversion.
Differences between target speakers also hinder the inter-
pretability of phonetic variation. We cannot ensure that the
clustering algorithm constrains phonetic variation in the same way
for all target speakers. The effect of these differences in the results
of our experiments is unclear. Interpretability could be further
improved by increasing the granularity of phonetic variation, which
can be replaced by pitch, energy and other prosodic aspects.
Lastly, we do not consider the emotion of the source speech
in our anonymization system. Addressing this should improve the
utility of the anonymized speech. To enhance emotion preservation
without leaking speaker identity, we need to recognize emotions,
and to model how the target speakers expresses them. For example,
the duration predictor could be trained with an emotional dataset,
conditioning the durations on the emotion of each sample.
7. Conclusion
We propose an interpretable extension of kNN-VC for speaker
anonymization. Each anonymization technique is specific and con-
figurable, allowing us to research its effect on utility and privacy. Our
experiments show that the variation and duration of phones encode
speaker identity, which the VPC 2024 attacker exploits to identify
speakers. Constraining the phonetic variation provides stronger
anonymization than altering the phone durations. Their combination
allows our system to cater to different utility requirements without
losing privacy. Unexpectedly, our experiments demonstrate that
target selection significantly influences objective privacy evaluations,
indicating that residual PII persists in the anonymized speech.
3227
8. Acknowledgements
Funded by Federal Ministry of Education and Research, Germany
(BMBF 16KIS2048).
9. References
[1] N. Tomashenko, B. M. L. Srivastava, X. Wang, E. Vincent, A. Nautsch,
J. Y amagishi, N. Evans, J. Patino, J.-F. Bonastre, P .-G. No´e, and
M. Todisco, “Introducing the V oicePrivacy Initiative,” inInterspeech
2020. ISCA, 2020, pp. 1693–1697.
[2] Y . Sinha, M. Raivakhovskyi, M. Schubert, and I. Siegert, “Safe-
guarding Speech Content Style: Enhancing Privacy Beyond Speaker
Identity,” in 4th Symposium on Security and Privacy in Speech
Communication. ISCA, Sep. 2024, pp. 92–101.
[3] N. Tomashenko, X. Miao, P . Champion, S. Meyer, X. Wang,
E. Vincent, M. Panariello, N. Evans, J. Y amagishi, and M. Todisco,
“The voiceprivacy 2024 challenge evaluation plan,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2404.02677, 2024.
[4] B. Sisman, J. Y amagishi, S. King, and H. Li, “An Overview of V oice
Conversion and Its Challenges: From Statistical Modeling to Deep
Learning,”IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language
Processing, vol. 29, pp. 132–157, 2021.
[5] M. Baas, B. van Niekerk, and H. Kamper, “V oice Conversion With
Just Nearest Neighbors,” inInterspeech 2023. ISCA, Aug. 2023,
pp. 2053–2057.
[6] C. Franzreb, A. Das, H. Gieseler, E. C. Jahn, T. Polzehl, and S. M¨oller,
“Towards Audiovisual Anonymization for Remote Psychotherapy: a
Subjective Evaluation,” in4th Symposium on Security and Privacy
in Speech Communication. ISCA, 2024, pp. 102–110.
[7] Z. Cai, H. Li Xinyuan, A. Grag, L. P . Garc ´ıa-Perera, K. Duh,
S. Khudanpur, N. Andrews, and M. Wiesner, “Privacy versus emotion
preservation trade-offs in emotion-preserving speaker anonymization,”
in IEEE Spoken Language T echnology W orkshop, 2024.
[8] S. Ghosh, M. Jouaiti, A. Das, Y . Sinha, T. Polzehl, I. Siegert, and
S. Stober, “Anonymising Elderly and Pathological Speech: V oice
Conversion Using DDSP and Query-by-Example,” inInterspeech
2024. ISCA, Sep. 2024, pp. 4438–4442.
[9] A. Das, C. Franzreb, T. Herzig, P . Pirlet, and T. Polzehl, “Comparing
speech anonymization efficacy by voice conversion using knn and
disentangled speaker feature representations,” in4th Symposium on
Security and Privacy in Speech Communication. ISCA, Sep. 2024,
pp. 121–126.
[10] D. Jurafsky and J. H. Martin, Speech and language processing:
an introduction to natural language processing, computational
linguistics, and speech recognition, ser. Prentice Hall series in artificial
intelligence. Upper Saddle River, N.J: Prentice Hall, 2000.
[11] N. Gengembre, O. Le Blouch, and C. Gendrot, “Disentangling prosody
and timbre embeddings via voice conversion,” inInterspeech 2024.
ISCA, Sep. 2024, pp. 2765–2769.
[12] P . Champion, “Anonymizing Speech: Evaluating and Designing
Speaker Anonymization Techniques,” Ph.D. dissertation, University
of Lorraine, 2023.
[13] Q. Jin, A. R. Toth, T. Schultz, and A. W. Black, “Speaker de-
identification via voice transformation,” in2009 IEEE W orkshop
on Automatic Speech Recognition & Understanding, Nov. 2009, pp.
529–533.
[14] N. Tomashenko, E. Vincent, and M. Tommasi, “Analysis of Speech
Temporal Dynamics in the Context of Speaker V erification and V oice
Anonymization,” in2025 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics,
Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2025.
[15] D. Fucci, B. Savoldi, M. Gaido, M. Negri, M. Cettolo, L. Bentivogli
et al., “Explainability for speech models: On the challenges of acoustic
feature selection,” inProceedings of the T enth Italian Conference on
Computational Linguistics (CLiC-it 2024), 2024.
[16] C. Rudin, “Stop explaining black box machine learning models for
high stakes decisions and use interpretable models instead,”Nature
Machine Intelligence, vol. 1, no. 5, pp. 206–215, May 2019.
[17] S. Meyer, F. Lux, J. Koch, P . Denisov, P . Tilli, and N. T. Vu, “Prosody
Is Not Identity: A Speaker Anonymization Approach Using Prosody
Cloning,” inICASSP 2023 - 2023 IEEE International Conference on
Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), Jun. 2023, pp. 1–5.
[18] Y . Ren, C. Hu, X. Tan, T. Qin, S. Zhao, Z. Zhao, and T.-Y . Liu,
“Fastspeech 2: Fast and high-quality end-to-end text to speech,” in
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2021.
[19] C. Franzreb, T. Polzehl, and S. M¨oller, “A Comprehensive Evaluation
Framework for Speaker Anonymization Systems,” in3rd Symposium
on Security and Privacy in Speech Communication. ISCA, 2023,
pp. 65–72.
[20] S. Chen, C. Wang, Z. Chen, Y . Wu, S. Liu, Z. Chen, J. Li, N. Kanda,
T. Y oshioka, X. Xiao, J. Wu, L. Zhou, S. Ren, Y . Qian, Y . Qian,
M. Zeng, X. Y u, and F. Wei, “Wavlm: Large-scale self-supervised
pre-training for full stack speech processing,”IEEE Journal of Selected
T opics in Signal Processing, vol. 16, pp. 1–14, 10 2022.
[21] A. Sicherman and Y . Adi, “Analysing Discrete Self Supervised Speech
Representation For Spoken Language Modeling,” inICASSP 2023 -
2023 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing (ICASSP), Jun. 2023, pp. 1–5, iSSN: 2379-190X.
[22] J. Kong, J. Kim, and J. Bae, “Hifi-gan: Generative adversarial networks
for efficient and high fidelity speech synthesis,”Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, vol. 33, pp. 17 022–17 033, 2020.
[23] S.-w. Y ang, P .-H. Chi, Y .-S. Chuang, C.-I. J. Lai, K. Lakhotia, Y . Y .
Lin, A. T. Liu, J. Shi, X. Chang, G.-T. Lin, T.-H. Huang, W.-C. Tseng,
K.-t. Lee, D.-R. Liu, Z. Huang, S. Dong, S.-W. Li, S. Watanabe,
A. Mohamed, and H.-y. Lee, “SUPERB: Speech Processing Universal
PERformance Benchmark,” inInterspeech 2021. ISCA, Aug. 2021,
pp. 1194–1198.
[24] V . Panayotov, G. Chen, D. Povey, and S. Khudanpur, “Librispeech: An
ASR corpus based on public domain audio books,” inProc. ICASSP
2015 - 40 th Annual IEEE International Conference on Acoustics,
Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), Brisbane, Australia, Apr.
2015, pp. 5206–5210.
[25] A. Graves, S. Fern´andez, F. Gomez, and J. Schmidhuber, “Connection-
ist temporal classification: labelling unsegmented sequence data with
recurrent neural networks,” inProceedings of the 23rd International
Conference on Machine Learning, ser. ICML ’06. New Y ork, NY ,
USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2006, p. 369–376.
[26] W. Zhou, F. Zhang, Y . Liu, W. Guan, Y . Zhao, and H. Qu, “Zero-Shot
Sing V oice Conversion: built upon clustering-based phoneme
representations,” Sep. 2024, arXiv:2409.08039 [cs, eess].
[27] Y . Sim, J. Y oon, and Y .-J. Suh, “SKQVC: One-Shot V oice Con-
version by K-Means Quantization with Self-Supervised Speech
Representations,” Nov. 2024, arXiv:2411.16147.
[28] J. A. Hartigan, M. A. Wonget al., “A k-means clustering algorithm,”
Applied statistics, vol. 28, no. 1, pp. 100–108, 1979.
[29] K. Ito and L. Johnson, “The lj speech dataset,” https:
//keithito.com/LJ-Speech-Dataset/, 2017.
[30] H. Zen, V . Dang, R. Clark, Y . Zhang, R. J. Weiss, Y . Jia, Z. Chen, and
Y . Wu, “Libritts: A corpus derived from librispeech for text-to-speech,”
in Interspeech 2019, 2019, pp. 1526–1530.
[31] C. Busso, M. Bulut, C.-C. Lee, A. Kazemzadeh, E. Mower, S. Kim,
J. N. Chang, S. Lee, and S. S. Narayanan, “Iemocap: Interactive
emotional dyadic motion capture database,”Language resources and
evaluation, vol. 42, pp. 335–359, 2008.
[32] M. Panariello, N. Tomashenko, X. Wang, X. Miao, P . Champion,
H. Nourtel, M. Todisco, N. Evans, E. Vincent, and J. Y amagishi,
“The voiceprivacy 2022 challenge: Progress and perspectives in voice
anonymisation,”IEEE/ACM Trans. Audio, Speech and Lang. Proc.,
vol. 32, p. 3477–3491, Jul. 2024.
[33] D. Liu, Y . Lin, H. Bu, and M. Li, “Two-stage and Self-supervised
V oice Conversion for Zero-Shot Dysarthric Speech Reconstruction,”
International Conference on Asian Language Processing, 2024.
3228
