Influence of Room Acoustics on Objective Voice Assessment Methods in the
Context of Speech and Language Therapy
Sven Franz1, Tanja Grewe1, Bernd T. Meyer2, J¨org Bitzer1
1Department of Technology and Health for People, Jade University of Applied Sciences, Oldenburg,
Germany
2 Communication Acoustics and Cluster of Excellence Hearing4all, Carl von Ossietzky University,
Oldenburg, Germany
sven.franz@jade-hs.de, tanja.grewe@jade-hs.de, bernd.meyer@uni-oldenburg.de,
joerg.bitzer@jade-hs.de
Abstract
V oice and speech disorders can be assessed through subjective
perceptual measures or objective indices, such as the Acoustic
V oice Quality Index (AVQI) or the Acoustic Breathiness Index
(ABI). These objective measures reduce diagnostic variability
by eliminating subjective evaluations. However, the impact of
room acoustics on their robustness for therapy monitoring re-
mains unclear. In this contribution, reverberation times, im-
pulse responses, and background noise were recorded and ana-
lyzed in conjunction with speech samples using statistical mod-
els to evaluate their influence. Results indicate that room acous-
tics significantly affect AVQI and ABI, particularly for non-
pathological voices and with distant microphones. For reliable
therapeutic use, standardized measurement environments or ro-
bust analysis methods are essential. Optimized recording con-
ditions with source-proximate microphones enhance accuracy,
advancing objective voice quality assessments and evidence-
based speech therapy.
Index Terms: V oice Disorders, Objective voice quality analy-
sis, Room Acoustics
1. Introduction
In the diagnostic assessment and monitoring of voice and
speech disorders in speech and language therapy (SLT) , both
subjective and objective evaluation methods are employed.
Subjective methods, such as perceptual assessment of voice
quality (e.g., through audiovisual perception, videostroboscopy,
or patient self-assessments), are often complemented by objec-
tive measurements that capture acoustic parameters and airflow
during phonation [1].
Standardized procedures such as the GRBAS scale
(grade of hoarseness, roughness, breathiness, asthenicity and
strain)and CAPE-V (Consensus Auditory-Perceptual Evalua-
tion of V oice) [2] enable a structured evaluation, yet they ex-
hibit limited interrater reliability [3]. As an objective alterna-
tive, indices such as the Dysphonia Severity Index (DSI) [4],
the Acoustic V oice Quality Index (AVQI) [5], and the Acoustic
Breathiness Index (ABI) [6] have been developed, representing
voice quality as a single, comparable numerical value.
A significant challenge of these objective methods is
achieving robust and comparable results in the acoustically di-
verse conditions commonly encountered in clinical and ambu-
lant therapy settings, which are often dictated by practical ne-
cessities rather than optimal acoustic design. Variations in room
configurations and ambient noise (e.g., from adjacent rooms or
street traffic) increase the variability of the measurement condi-
tions, complicating the application of thresholds to distinguish
between pathological and non-pathological voices and to objec-
tively assess therapy outcomes.
Uloza et al. [7] demonstrated that the impact of different
microphones and artificially generated environmental noise on
the AVQI is minimal and statistically not significant. However,
it is important to note that the added noise was at a very low
level, and the recordings were conducted in a soundproofed en-
vironment. This is still close to the original recording conditions
during the development of the original AVQI and ABI [8][6].
This study for the first time determines extensive acoustic room
parameters in SLT rooms and evaluates their impact on objec-
tive voice quality measures.
The present paper is organized as follows: Section 2 intro-
duces the measurement and analysis procedures, while Section
3 presents the results along with an extensive discussion. Fi-
nally, Section 4 provides the conclusions drawn from the pa-
per’s findings.
2. Methodology
Acoustic measurements were conducted using a G.R.A.S.
Knowles Electronics Manikin for Acoustic Research (KEMAR)
Head and Torso Type 45BM, dressed in a T-shirt, in combina-
tion with aG.R.A.S. 44AB Mouth Simulator. This ensures repro-
ducible impulse responses (IR) that realistically simulate speech
therapy settings.
The mouth simulator possesses frequency-dependent trans-
mission characteristics that needed to be equalized and cal-
ibrated for this study. Following equalization, the resulting
transfer function exhibited a deviation of less than 2 dB across
all one-third octave frequencies within the range of fmin =
50Hz tofmax = 10kHz.
2.1. Impulse Response Measurements in Therapy Rooms
The IR where measured in eight regionally and randomly se-
lected institutions with a total of 35 rooms (32 speech-language
therapy rooms, 3 audiology test rooms), placing the KEMAR
in the designated patient seating position. Excitation was per-
formed using a sequence of ten logarithmically swept sine sig-
nals in the relevant frequency range of fmin = 50Hz to
fmax = 10kHz, weighted with the equalizationIR of the mouth
simulator.
To analyze quality measures based on microphone type and
position, sweep signals were recorded simultaneously using the
following microphones:
• A DPA 4006-TL Studio Microphone with DD0251 free-field
grid used as level calibration reference and for reverberation
time measuring, placed on the treatment table in front of the
KEMAR.
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
5308 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1851

• A Motorola moto g84 5G (XT2347-2)smartphone, positioned
closed to the reference microphone on the table.
• A RODE WIRELESS PRO lavalier microphone, attached to
the collar of the T-shirt.
All microphones were aligned toward the KEMAR. The
lavalier microphone was positioned approximately 20 cm from
the mouth opening, while the other microphones were placed on
the treatment table at realistic distances corresponding to typi-
cal speech quality assessments in therapy (approximately0.4 to
0.6 m selected to reflect real-life conditions).
2.2. Reverberation Times and Background Noise
Reverberation times were determined for 23 third-octave bands
with center frequencies ranging from fm1 = 64Hz tofm23 =
10kHz using Schroeder integration of the squared absolute sig-
nal [9], allowing for comparison with the recommendations of
DIN 18041.
To assess background noise in the SLT rooms, recordings
were made using all microphones at least for 60 s without any
activity in the room. This was done during regular clinical op-
erations to obtain a representative sample under real-world con-
ditions. The recorded levels of the differently calibrated micro-
phones were then harmonized using broadband adjustments and
subsequently calibrated in dBSPL.
As a reference for microphone level calibration, white noise
was played and measured with the DPA 4006-TL Studio Micro-
phone using a WEVOSYS lingWAVES SPL meter II Sound Level
Meter in dBSPL with C-weighting and “Slow” analysis set-
tings. The sound source was aNorsonic Dodecahedron Speaker
Nor229, driven by a Norsonic Power Amplifier 260 positioned
behind the KEMAR whenever possible.
2.3. Speech Signal Leveling and Data Analysis
The levels of the speech signals used were adjusted across dif-
ferent microphone positions by determining the mean speech
level using a voice-activity detector, based on a power thresh-
old of−30 dB relative to the maximum speech signal power,
and normalizing it to 80 dBSPL for the lavalier microphone sig-
nal. At a 20 cm distance, this corresponds to an average speech
sound level of approximately 65 dBSPL at one meter. The lev-
els of the other microphones were adjusted according to their
measured transfer functions.
The impact of room acoustics on the objective speech qual-
ity measures AVQI and ABI, along with their underlying param-
eters, was analyzed using the Praat script praat analysis.praat,
integrated into the VOXplot software [10]. Measurements were
performed for:
• Dry speech signals,
• Speech signals convolved with IRs
• Speech signals mixed with randomly selected background
noise from the measured noise floor.
This method enables realistic simulation by computing speech
quality measures directly within the captured clinical environ-
ments while allowing independent analysis of room acoustics
and noise effects.
The influence of room acoustics on the voice quality param-
eterX is analyzed via the difference:
∆X = Xroom− Xdry,
where Xdry is the measure without and Xroom the measure with
room effects. Positive ∆ values indicate deterioration. For this
Figure 1: Percentile Corridors of reverberation times as a func-
tion of third-octave band center frequencies for 35 speech and
language therapy rooms and recommended reverberation times
for usage types A3 and A4 according to DIN 18041.
analysis,N = 1644 voice samples from the Saarbr¨ucken V oice
Database (SVD) [11] were used.
The analysis of acoustic influences on speech quality mea-
sures and parameters was conducted using mixed-effects lin-
ear models (MixedLM) with restricted maximum likelihood
(REML) estimation [12]. Model performance was evaluated
based on the normalized Root Mean Squared Error (∥RMSE∥)
and the coefficient of determination (R2) [13]. Various model
variants, incorporating both linear and nonlinear terms (e.g.,
log(X), x2, x3), were explored. After model selection, pre-
dictions were made for a test data subset to assess accuracy and
determine the optimal model.
3. Results and Discussion
The presentation of the results is divided into two sections:
background noise analysis and the impact of room acoustics.
3.1. Background Noise
The noise floor measurement revealed that in 27 of 35 rooms
the background noise level is ≤ 40 dB(A), in five rooms it is
≤ 45 dB(A), and only one room exceeds55 dB(A). All values
are higher compared to the simulated noises in [7].
The analysis of the noise floor showed only minor devi-
ations in AVQI for both microphones: For the lavalier mi-
crophone the mean value deviates µ∆,Noise = 0 .10 units
(interquartile range IQR = 0 .10), and for the smartphone,
µ∆,Noise = 0.07 (IQR = 0.08). Similar values were observed
for ABI: Lavalier: µ∆,Noise = 0.07 (IQR = 0.15), Smartphone:
µ∆,Noise = 0.03 (IQR = 0.12). Outliers (approximately±1 unit)
occasionally occurred; notably, Institution 5, Room 1, exhibited
a significantly higher mean and increased IQR. This very large
SLT room is primarily used for gymnastics and only serves as
a backup SLT room. These small deviations underlines the re-
sults of [7] that the impact of noise at typical background level
is only of secondary importance for the usage of A VQI and ABI
as diagnostic tools.
3.2. Room Acoustics
Figure 1 shows the relative frequencies of reverberation times
in 100 ms intervals, broken down by selected third-octave band
center frequencies.
5309

Figure 2: Distributions of the influence of room acoustics on the objective vocal quality measures AVQI for voice samples from the
Saarbr¨ucken Voice Database, determined by the difference in vocal quality measures with and without room influence, depending
on the respective room and different microphones. The differences between the microphones in each room were tested for statistical
significance using a t-test (p< 0.05) and marked with * if distributions significantly differed.
Figure 3: Distributions of the influence of room acoustics on the objective vocal quality measures ABI for voice samples from the
Saarbr¨ucken Voice Database, determined by the difference in vocal quality measures with and without room influence, depending
on the respective room and different microphones. The differences between the microphones in each room were tested for statistical
significance using a t-test (p< 0.05) and marked with * if distributions significantly differed.
Despite the specific requirements for treating voice and
speech disorders, there are no binding acoustic standards for
SLT rooms in Germany. Existing regulations only specify min-
imum room sizes: at least 20 m2 for a primary treatment room
and 12 m2 for additional rooms [14].
The DIN 18041:2016-03 [15] provides guidelines for op-
timal room acoustics. SLT rooms fall under Category A –
“Rooms for Communication” – and should ideally meet us-
age type A3 (“Teaching/Communication”) or, preferably, A4
(“Inclusive Teaching/Communication”), as SLT therapists of-
ten work with patients with hearing impairments and/or special
needs. The standard defines recommended reverberation times
for each usage type with a frequency-dependent tolerance of
±20% within the 250 to 2000 Hz range. We assume, compa-
rable guidelines are available in other countries, perhaps less
officially defined.
With an average room height of ≈ 2.5 m, a typical room
volume ranges from V = 30 to 80 m3. For comparison pur-
poses, Figure 1 includes the recommended reverberation time
thresholds for these two boundary values.
Only eight of the measured rooms meet or fall below the
recommended reverberation times for A4, while approximately
half adhere to A3 standards. This highlights that room acoustics
may not be the primary concern when planning the interior of
SLT rooms.
Figures 2 and 3 show theAVQI and ABI, respectively, for all
35 rooms. For each room, two boxplots display the ∆X values
for all sentences in the SVD, corresponding to the two tested
microphone positions. The boxplots display the mean, IQR, and
individual outliers. Additionally, asterisks below the boxplots
indicate whether the results for the two microphone positions
are statistically different. The t-test results were computed at a
significance level of 0.05.
These Figures illustrate that, with one exception, voice
quality measures deteriorate by 0 to 2 units on average in all
rooms, with a maximum IQR of about 1 unit and outliers up to
±6 units. Moreover, the impact of room acoustics is lower for
the lavalier microphone than for the smartphone, as confirmed
by a t-test (significance level 0.05). Furthermore, the higher dis-
tance to the mouth also increases the IQR and variance for all
5310

Figure 4: Interquartile range and medians of room acoustics-
influenced voice quality measures (AVQI/ABI) as a function of
the unaffected voice quality measure for different microphones
in 35 speech therapy rooms.
Table 1: Model fitting results for the objective vocal quality
measures AVQI and ABI, along with their individual parame-
ters, including the normalized RMSE, the coefficient of deter-
mination R2, and the results of the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test
(test statisticW - andp-value)
ParameterX ∥RMSE∥ R2 W p
AVQI 0.636 0.596 0.279 < 0.01
ABI 0.669 0.553 0.249 < 0.01
measurements.
The striking similarity between the two illustrations high-
lights the close relationship between AVQI and ABI, as both in-
dices depend on similar low-level features for their final calcu-
lations. The dependency of the acoustically influenced ∆ on
the dry voice quality measures AVQI and ABI, as well as for
different microphones, is shown in Figure 4. It can be observed
that ∆ varies with the unaffected voice quality measures: for
lower AVQI/ABI values (less pathological voices), the mean de-
viations are approximately 2 units higher than for more patho-
logical voices. In some cases, very high dry values even result
in an improved quality assessment solely due to room effects.
Based on these observations, a mixed-effects linear model
(MixedLM) using the statsmodels library (v0.14.4) in
Python was selected and evaluated, accounting for the fixed ef-
fects of categorical room C(Room) dependency, the influence
of the dry voice quality measure X, and their interaction, as
well as the random effect of subjects:
∆ =X∗C(Room) + (1|subject). (1)
Exploratory analysis revealed that the voice quality mea-
sures are non-normally distributed due to skewness and out-
liers. Examination of the residuals (the differences between ob-
served and predicted values) showed that they are symmetric but
narrower and more concentrated around the mean than a nor-
mal distribution (Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, p-value< 0.01).
These results suggest that, despite slight deviations, the model
is robust and permits reliable statistical inferences.
The following results refer to the smartphone microphone,
as the results for the lavalier microphone—while compara-
ble—are less pronounced. Table 1 summarizes key model fit
metrics (∥RMSE∥, R2, and the results of the Kolmogorov-
Smirnov test) for the different voice quality parameters. The
models exhibit a similar prediction error (∥RMSE∥) of approx-
imately 0.6 units for both overall measures. A moderate yet
acceptable model fit of R2 > 0.55 suggests that the model
captures a significant portion of the variability in voice qual-
ity assessments, with the remaining variance attributed to unac-
counted factors or random influences.
The effect of the dry voice quality measure is significant
(p < 0.01) and negative for both AVQI (−0.245) and ABI
(−0.233). This confirms that deviations are larger for lower dry
values and decrease with increasing values. Room effects range
from−2.294 to 0.620 and are significant for almost all rooms
(p <0.01) – except for Institut 1 Room 3 and Room 6 (AVQI)
and Institut 3 Room 3 and Institut 5 Room 3 (ABI) – indicating
that some rooms positively, and others negatively influence ∆.
Numerous interactions are also significant (p <0.01), demon-
strating that the effects of the acoustic environment vary with
the dry values. The group level variance is approximately 0.15
for both measures, indicating moderate individual variability.
4. Conclusions
While background noise levels in momentary recordings are
generally acceptable, excessive reverberation is particularly ev-
ident in SLT rooms treating children with hearing impairments
or auditory processing disorders (APD) [16] as well as hearing
impaired elderly patients.
Our results show that most of the examined rooms
are acoustically suboptimal, with recommended reverberation
times frequently exceeded.
The study shows that the voice quality measures AVQI and
ABI are significantly influenced by room acoustics, the degree
of voice impairment, and the microphone position. On average,
the measurements shift by 1 to 2 units (on a scale from 0 to 10),
with observed deviations ranging from -2 to +4 units. Notably,
voices that are unremarkable (non-pathological) tend to be more
affected, which can lead to a classification in the pathological
range.
Furthermore, the impact of room acoustics also depends on
the microphone position: the closer the microphone is to the
sound source (e.g., a lavalier microphone), the smaller the de-
viation from the dry signal and the lower the dispersion of the
measurements. Thus, in addition to optimizing room acoustics,
the use of source-proximate microphones – ideally headset mi-
crophones – should be considered when assessing voice quality.
In summary, comparing objective voice quality measures
between different institutions or even between rooms within
the same institution is problematic due to room acoustic dif-
ferences. However, AVQI and ABI can be used for monitoring
therapy progress, provided that measurements are consistently
conducted under identical room and recording conditions. For
automated and technology-assisted analysis methods, it is es-
sential either to optimize the acoustic properties of SLT rooms
or to develop measurement techniques that are more robust to
room influences. Additionally, therapists should be informed
about the potential effects of room acoustics to ultimately en-
hance the reliability and accuracy of the results.
5311

5. Acknowledgments
This study was supported by the Lower Saxony Ministry for
Science and Culture with funds from the governmental funding
initiative zukunft.niedersachsen of the V olkswagen Foundation,
project ”Data-driven health (DEAL)”.
Bernd Meyer’s contributioh was funded by the Deutsche
Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation)
under Germany’s Excellence Strategy – EXC 2177/1 - Project
ID 390895286 and by - Project-ID 352015383 - SFB 1330 C6.
We extend our gratitude to the supporting institutions that
graciously allowed us to conduct acoustic measurements during
their regular operations.
6. References
[1] P. H. Dejonckere, P. Bradley, P. Clemente, G. Cornut, L. Crevier-
Buchman, G. Friedrich, P. Van De Heyning, M. Remacle, V . Wois-
ard, and Committee on Phoniatrics of the European Laryngolog-
ical Society (ELS), “A basic protocol for functional assessment
of voice pathology, especially for investigating the efficacy of
(phonosurgical) treatments and evaluating new assessment tech-
niques. Guideline elaborated by the Committee on Phoniatrics of
the European Laryngological Society (ELS),” European archives
of oto-rhino-laryngology: official journal of the European Feder-
ation of Oto-Rhino-Laryngological Societies (EUFOS): affiliated
with the German Society for Oto-Rhino-Laryngology - Head and
Neck Surgery, vol. 258, no. 2, pp. 77–82, Feb. 2001.
[2] G. B. Kempster, B. R. Gerratt, K. Verdolini Abbott, J. Barkmeier-
Kraemer, and R. E. Hillman, “Consensus Auditory-Perceptual
Evaluation of V oice: Development of a Standardized Clinical Pro-
tocol,” American Journal of Speech-Language Pathology, vol. 18,
no. 2, pp. 124–132, May 2009, publisher: American Speech-
Language-Hearing Association. [Online]. Available: https:
//pubs.asha.org/doi/10.1044/1058-0360%282008/08-0017%29
[3] J. Kreiman, B. R. Gerratt, G. B. Kempster, A. Erman, and G. S.
Berke, “Perceptual evaluation of voice quality: review, tutorial,
and a framework for future research,” Journal of Speech and
Hearing Research, vol. 36, no. 1, pp. 21–40, Feb. 1993.
[4] F. L. Wuyts, M. S. De Bodt, G. Molenberghs, M. Remacle,
L. Heylen, B. Millet, K. Van Lierde, J. Raes, and P. H. Van de
Heyning, “The dysphonia severity index: an objective measure
of vocal quality based on a multiparameter approach,” Journal of
speech, language, and hearing research: JSLHR , vol. 43, no. 3,
pp. 796–809, Jun. 2000.
[5] Y . Maryn, N. Roy, M. De Bodt, P. Van Cauwenberge, and
P. Corthals, “Acoustic measurement of overall voice quality: A
meta-analysis,” The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America,
vol. 126, no. 5, pp. 2619–2634, Nov. 2009. [Online]. Available:
http://asa.scitation.org/doi/10.1121/1.3224706
[6] B. Barsties V Latoszek, Y . Maryn, E. Gerrits, and M. De Bodt,
“The Acoustic Breathiness Index (ABI): A Multivariate Acoustic
Model for Breathiness,” Journal of Voice: Official Journal of the
Voice Foundation, vol. 31, no. 4, pp. 511.e11–511.e27, Jul. 2017.
[7] V . Uloza, N. Ulozait ˙e-Stanien˙e, T. Petrauskas, and R. Kregˇzdyt˙e,
“Accuracy of Acoustic V oice Quality Index Captured With a
Smartphone - Measurements With Added Ambient Noise,” Jour-
nal of Voice: Official Journal of the Voice Foundation , vol. 37,
no. 3, pp. 465.e19–465.e26, May 2023.
[8] Y . Maryn, “Acoustic measurement of overall voice quality in sus-
tained vowels and continuous speech,” Ph.D. dissertation, Ghent
University, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Department
of Otorhinolaryngology, 01 2010.
[9] M. R. Schroeder, “New Method of Measuring Reverberation
Time,” The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America ,
vol. 37, no. 3, pp. 409–412, 03 1965. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1121/1.1909343
[10] J. Mayer, “VOXplot.” [Online]. Available: https://voxplot.
lingphon.com/en
[11] B. Woldert-Jokisz, “Saarbr ¨ucker Stimmdatenbank,” May 2007,
publisher: Institut f ¨ur Phonetik, Universit ¨ut des Saarlandes.
[Online]. Available: https://stimmdatenbank.coli.uni-saarland.de/
help de.php4
[12] A. F. Zuur, E. N. Ieno, N. Walker, A. A. Saveliev,
and G. M. Smith, Mixed effects models and extensions
in ecology with R , ser. Statistics for Biology and Health.
New York, NY: Springer, 2009. [Online]. Available: http:
//link.springer.com/10.1007/978-0-387-87458-6
[13] M. Kuhn and K. Johnson, Applied Predictive Modeling . New
York, NY: Springer New York, 2013. [Online]. Available:
http://link.springer.com/10.1007/978-1-4614-6849-3
[14] GKV-Spitzenverband, “Anlage 5 Zulassungsvoraussetzungen
zum Vertrag nach § 125 Absatz 1 SGB V ¨uber die
Versorgung mit Leistungen der Stimm-, Sprech-, Sprach-
und Schlucktherapie und deren Verg ¨utung vom 15.03.2021,”
2021. [Online]. Available: https://www.gkv-heilmittel.de/
fuer heilmittelerbringer/vertraege/vertraege.jsp
[15] Deutsche Institut f ¨ur Normung e.V . (Ed), “DIN 18041:2016-
03, H¨orsamkeit in R¨aumen - Anforderungen, Empfehlungen und
Hinweise f¨ur die Planung,” Berlin: Beuth Verlag 2016.
[16] D. Moore, N. Campbell, S. Rosen, D.-E. Bamiou, T. Sirimanna,
P. Grant, and K. Wakeham, “Position statement and practice guid-
ance auditory processing disorder (apd),” 02 2018.
5312
