warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
From Static to Dynamic: Enhancing AAC with Generative Imagery and
Zero-Shot TTS
Juliana Francis1, Joakim Gustafsson1, ´Eva Sz´ekely1
1Division of Speech, Music and Hearing, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden
jfrancis@kth.se, jkgu@kth.se, szekely@kth.se
Abstract
This paper presents an Augmentative and Alternative Com-
munication (AAC) approach for minimally verbal children with
Autism Spectrum Disorder. Traditional AAC systems use fixed
symbol sets and pre-defined Text-to-Speech (TTS) voices, this
proposed method leverages text-to-image generation and zero-
shot TTS to expand expressive capabilities. Users can create
visual symbols for concepts and interests, enabling richer com-
munication.
Further, zero-shot TTS allows users to upload or record per-
sonalized voices, enabling users to have individualized output.
By minimizing reliance on static symbols and voices, this ap-
proach aims to increase communicative agency, personal rele-
vance, and social validity, areas often neglected in traditional
interventions. Future research will explore long-term effects on
communicative skills, user satisfaction, social engagement, and
adaptability across various cultural and linguistic settings, aim-
ing to develop more dynamic and personalized AAC solutions.
Index Terms: Speech Synthesis, TTS, AAC, Human-Computer
Interaction
1. Introduction and Related Work
A considerable proportion of children diagnosed with autism
spectrum disorder (ASD), approximately 25% to 30%, expe-
rience challenges in functional spoken language development.
Many remain minimally verbal, rely on echolalia, or only com-
municate verbally in limited contexts [1]. For these children,
Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) devices,
including low-tech systems such as the Picture Exchange Com-
munication System (PECS) and high-tech Speech-Generating
Devices (SGDs), often serve as critical supports for commu-
nicative development [2].
Research supports the effectiveness of AAC interventions
in enhancing communication for children with ASD [3], par-
ticularly PECS and SGDs. However, many interventions fo-
cus narrowly on requesting rather than broader communicative
intents, often represented by available vocabulary on AAC de-
vices [4, 5].
Current AAC systems are often constrained by the limited
images and vocabulary within them, which can make it difficult
to support the development of richer, more personalized com-
munication. Measures of social validity are frequently limited
to surveys of caregivers or educators that assume any improve-
ment in functional communication is inherently socially valid
[5]. This reflects a need to prioritize real-world application and
user-centered design in AAC research.
Advancements in mobile technology have made robust, af-
fordable AAC devices feasible [6]. However, high costs and ne-
cessity for clinician approval for many devices have limited ac-
Figure 1: Core interface, showcasing generated images, voice
selection, and folders.
cessibility for general users seeking SGDs. Many users perform
effectively with SGDs when provided with minimal or no in-
struction [7], as such low-cost applications could enhance com-
munication by removing barriers. Additionally, text-to-image
(T2I) and zero-shot text-to-speech (TTS) technologies enable
on-demand creation of visual symbols and voices, providing
immediate adaptation to user needs, rather than being restricted
via designer-imposed limitations.
2. System Design
2.1. User Interface and Interaction
The system is cross platform and is designed to appear simi-
lar to existing picture based AAC systems, to the existing SGD
“Proloquo2Go” [8]. This is to ease current users in adapting to
the new system, and keeps the system inline with AAC design
principles that have previously been effective with actual users
[8].
The core section of the display consists of large square but-
tons that users can press. The buttons feature either an image or
a solid color as their background. Each button displays words or
phrases. Users can press these to add the displayed text to their
next speech output or long-press them to enable options for re-
moval, editing, or relocation of the button to other positions on
the board.
For the buttons images, users can either upload local images
to the platform or generate images via a T2I system, specifically
DALL-E 3 [9]. The buttons ’word’ (the word added to the out-
put when pressed) is used within a predefined prompt structure
for the T2I model. Four image are generated to be selected as
the buttons background.
Buttons can function as folders, allowing users to open new
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
4960
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2815

Figure 2: Diagram of the system usage flow.
“pages” that organize words often accessed together. For ex-
ample, in recreational contexts, words related to specific toys,
action phrases like “throw” and “catch” or descriptive terms like
”fast” and “bouncy,” can be grouped.
The color of buttons can be customized, with a selection
of neutral tones and mellow shades available by default, along
with custom color selection also.
To enable communication in a voice ’fitting’ to them, a
zero-shot TTS system is integrated into the platform. Users are
able to select the voice they wish to communicate in by select-
ing options along the top bar of the interface. The voices can
be customized through either uploading short audio clips of a
voice they wish to use, or by recording their voice. Simple sen-
tences are provided for the user to read out, which are used as
input, along with the text to speak to the zero-shot TTS system.
XTTS was chosen as the TTS system due to its multilingual
capabilities [10], allowing for better accommodation of diverse
backgrounds.
2.2. Customization and Accessibility Options
Within the device settings, caregivers or users can tailor the in-
terface to individual needs. They can adjust margins to reduce
accidental presses, modify the number of boxes per row, change
the long-press duration for entering editing mode, enable or
disable text expansion, and lock editing to prevent unintended
changes.
2.3. Additional Features
Users or carers can enable ’text expansion’. This allows the
user to create expanded versions of their current input that
is potentially more conversationally appropriate.
This oper-
ates similarly to a previous AAC research prototype [11] and
is currently performed using GPT4o, however future work
should enhance this with fine-tuned models for each user,
fitting to their personal style.
Further, prior to this being
available outside of an experimental context, local LLM so-
lutions should be utilized to prevent conversational data be-
ing shared with third parties.
The system is available here:
https://github.com/jandfranc/AIImageAAC.
2.4. Ethical and Privacy Considerations
The system is designed with modularity to enable adaptation to
improving technologies to ensure components like T2I systems,
which may be trained on data sourced without permission, can
be replaced with alternatives aligning with ethical standards.
Similarly, the TTS component is designed to be exchangeable
as better methods become available.
To protect AAC device users privacy, personal data is not
shared with third-party servers unless absolutely necessary. Lo-
cal data processing is prioritized to enhance security. Before
deployment, extensive testing is essential to ensure safety and
security.
2.5. Future Research
Future research should compare the system’s effectiveness with
existing AAC solutions, investigating functional and social-
communicative functions. Longitudinal studies should assess
whether communication improvements persist and generalize
across varied settings. Research should incorporate feedback
from AAC users, caregivers, and professionals to meet their
needs. Additionally, studies should evaluate the system’s scal-
ability, cross-linguistic applicability, and integration with other
assistive technologies to broaden accessibility and usability for
diverse populations.
3. References
[1] E. R. Lorah, C. Holyfield, J. Miller, B. Griffen, and C. Lindbloom,
“A systematic review of research comparing mobile technology
speech-generating devices to other aac modes with individuals
with autism spectrum disorder,” Journal of Developmental and
Physical Disabilities, vol. 34, pp. 187–210, 08 2021.
[2] J. Light, D. McNaughton, D. Beukelman, S. K. Fager, M. Fried-
Oken, T. Jakobs, and E. Jakobs, “Challenges and opportunities in
augmentative and alternative communication: Research and tech-
nology development to enhance communication and participation
for individuals with complex communication needs,” Augmenta-
tive and Alternative Communication, vol. 35, pp. 1–12, 01 2019.
[3] L. van der Meer,
D. Sutherland,
M. F. O’Reilly,
G. E.
Lancioni, and J. Sigafoos, “A further comparison of manual
signing, picture exchange, and speech-generating devices as
communication modes for children with autism spectrum
disorders,” Research in Autism Spectrum Disorders, vol. 6,
pp. 1247–1257, 10 2012. [Online]. Available:
https://www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1750946712000451
[4] A. Paris, L. D. Denne, C. F. Grindle, R. May, M. M. Apanasionok,
and R. P. Hastings, “Facilitators and barriers to the implementa-
tion of the picture exchange communication system (pecs): a sys-
tematic review,” Frontiers in Education, vol. 9, pp. 1–15, 06 2024.
[5] L. A. J. van der Meer and M. Rispoli, “Communication inter-
ventions involving speech-generating devices for children with
autism: A review of the literature,” Developmental Neuroreha-
bilitation, vol. 13, pp. 294–306, 07 2010.
[6] E. R. Lorah, A. Parnell, P. S. Whitby, and D. Hantula,
“A systematic review of tablet computers and portable media
players as speech generating devices for individuals with autism
spectrum disorder,”
Journal of Autism and Developmental
Disorders, vol. 45, pp. 3792–3804, 11 2014. [Online]. Available:
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs10803-014-2314-4
[7] L. McLay, L. van der Meer, M. C. M. Sch¨afer, L. Couper,
E. McKenzie, M. F. O’Reilly, G. E. Lancioni, P. B. Marschik,
V. A. Green, J. Sigafoos, and D. Sutherland, “Comparing acquisi-
tion, generalization, maintenance, and preference across three aac
options in four children with autism spectrum disorder,” Journal
of Developmental and Physical Disabilities, vol. 27, pp. 323–339,
12 2014.
[8] AssistiveWare,
“Proloquo2go
-
aac
app
with
symbols
-
assistiveware,”
Assistive
Ware,
2019.
[Online].
Available:
https://www.assistiveware.com/products/proloquo2go
[9] J. Betker, G. Goh, L. Jing, T. Brooks, J. Wang, L. Li, L. Ouyang,
J. Zhuang, J. Lee, Y. Guo et al., “Improving image genera-
tion with better captions,” Computer Science. https://cdn. openai.
com/papers/dall-e-3. pdf, vol. 2, no. 3, p. 8, 2023.
[10] E. Casanova,
K. Davis,
E. G¨olge,
G. G¨oknar,
I. Gulea,
L. Hart, A. Aljafari, J. Meyer, R. Morais, S. Olayemi, and
J. Weber,
“Xtts:
a massively multilingual zero-shot text-
to-speech model,” arXiv.org, 06 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04904
4961

[11] J. Francis, ´E. Sz´ekely, and J. Gustafson, “Connectone: A modular
aac system prototype with contextual generative text prediction
and style-adaptive conversational tts,” pp. 1001–1002, 09 2024.
4962

