warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
IDIR: Identifying and Distilling Informative Relations for Speaker Verification
Chong-Xin Gan, Zhe Li, Zezhong Jin, Zilong Huang, Man-Wai Mak, Kong Aik Lee
Dept. of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University,
Hong Kong SAR
chong-xin.gan@connect.polyu.hk
Abstract
Traditional feature-based knowledge distillation aligns the stu-
dent’s features with the teacher’s features.
However, these
one-to-one alignments overlook the structural relations between
speakers in a mini-batch.
Also, the large capacity gap be-
tween the two networks causes significant discrepancies be-
tween their features.
To address these limitations, we pro-
pose distilling the inter- and intra-speaker relations.
Instead
of mimicking all pairwise relations between the student’s and
teacher’s feature vectors, we propose Identifying and Distilling
Informative Relations (IDIR), enabling the student network to
acquire speakers’ relationships from the teacher. Moreover, a
margin is added to the similarity scores of the informative pairs,
further reducing intra-speaker variances and increasing inter-
speaker separations. Evaluations with a simple x-vector student
network demonstrate the method’s superb performance across
three test sets, showcasing its merits and effectiveness.
Index Terms:
knowledge distillation, feature distillation,
speaker recognition
1. Introduction
Deep neural network (DNN)-based approaches have greatly im-
proved the performance of speaker verification systems [1, 2],
particularly when trained on large-scale datasets [3] with so-
phisticated loss functions [4, 5]. Compared to the traditional
i-vector framework [6], which relies on a Gaussian mixture
model (GMM) and a universal background model (UBM),
DNN-based speaker embedding networks have shown superior
capabilities in feature extraction and noise robustness. During
inference, the speaker representations extracted from the penul-
timate layer of the speaker embedding network are typically
processed using a cosine similarity-based backend for decision
making.
Recently, Transformer-based architectures [7], originally
proposed for natural language processing (NLP), have been suc-
cessfully repurposed for computer vision and speech tasks. In
the context of speaker verification, numerous studies leveraged
the strong capabilities of large speech models [8–10] that were
pre-trained on extensive corpora, cascading them with tradi-
tional speaker encoders [11,12]. This combination has demon-
strated impressive results, largely boosting the performance of
speaker verification [13, 14]. However, the performance im-
proves with the increasing number of trainable parameters, re-
sulting in powerful yet cumbersome models. To adapt the model
to some specific tasks, parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT)
This work was supported by the RGC of Hong Kong SAR, Grant No. PolyU 15210122 and 15228223
is developed to update only a subset of the model’s parame-
ters instead of training the entire model from scratch [15, 16].
While these techniques effectively reduce training costs, de-
ploying these bulky models is still quite difficult, especially
for resource-constrained edge devices. To address this limita-
tion, techniques such as model pruning [17], quantization [18],
and knowledge distillation [19] have been extensively explored.
Among these, knowledge distillation (KD) stands out for its
simplicity and effectiveness. It trains a lightweight student net-
work by leveraging additional supervision of a large teacher net-
work, by aligning predictions at the logit level, or by distilling
feature-level knowledge.
Knowledge distillation is generally classified into three cat-
egories based on the distillation position: logit-level KD [19],
feature-level KD [20], and a hybrid approach that combines
the two [21].
Logit-level KD directly minimizes the Kull-
back–Leibler (KL) divergence between the predicted output dis-
tributions of the teacher and student networks. Previous stud-
ies, such as [22, 23], have demonstrated that speaker verifica-
tion performance can be improved by leveraging the decoupled
information of non-target speakers. Building on this concept,
grouped knowledge distillation is introduced to further enhance
KD by dividing the speaker posteriors into a primary group and
a non-primary group [24]. Although these methods have shown
promising results, their performance is highly sensitive to hy-
perparameter configurations, which increases the computational
cost of identifying optimal settings. To address this issue, an ad-
versarial temperature adjustment mechanism was proposed for
KD loss, where the temperature varies dynamically across dif-
ferent training stages [25]. While this approach mitigates some
of the challenges related to hyperparameter sensitivity, the re-
quirement of training a discriminator to estimate optimal tem-
peratures introduces additional complexity and effort, making it
less practical in certain scenarios.
Unlike logit-based KD, feature-based KD is intuitively
more suitable for speaker verification tasks, as the classification
head is typically discarded after training. Moreover, as the num-
ber of training speakers continues to increase, it becomes more
challenging for the student network to replicate the teacher’s
speaker posterior distributions since the posteriors of many non-
target speakers are nearly zero. Feature-level KD can effectively
bypass this issue by aligning the intermediate representations
of the student and teacher networks with metrics such as mean
squared error (MSE) [26, 27] or cosine similarity [28]. How-
ever, guiding the student network to produce identical speaker
representations via MSE is unrealistic due to the significant ca-
pacity gap between the student and teacher networks. In con-
trast, maximizing cosine similarity offers greater flexibility and
serves as a more effective training strategy. Nevertheless, tra-
ditional feature distillation operates at the sample level, failing
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
5758
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-736

to capture the structural relationships among different speak-
ers. To overcome this limitation, [28,29] proposed transferring
inter-class relations across all samples in a mini-batch. While
effective, considering all pairwise relations is suboptimal, as
not all relationships contribute equally to knowledge transfer.
In [30], relational information among positive-anchor-negative
pairs was repurposed to address domain mismatch. Different
from them, we emphasize the informative inter-speaker rela-
tionships to enhance the distillation. Furthermore, the centers
of class-dependent features derived from the teacher network
are pre-computed to facilitate the transfer of intra-speaker rela-
tionships from the teacher network to the student network.
In summary, the contributions to this paper are as fol-
lows.
Firstly, we designed two simple strategies to identify
and transfer the most informative inter-speaker relations from
the teacher to the student, enhancing the efficiency and effec-
tiveness of the knowledge distillation process. Secondly, by
utilizing a frozen teacher network to pre-compute the centers
of speaker-dependent features, we enable the effective transfer
of intra-speaker relations, promoting smaller intra-speaker vari-
ances. Thirdly, a fixed margin is applied to both inter- and intra-
speaker relations, guiding the student to achieve better perfor-
mance.
2. Methodology
2.1. Conventional Logit and Feature Distillations
Consider an utterance u and its corresponding speaker label y,
where y ∈{1, . . . , C} and C is the number of speakers in the
training set. The teacher f tea (.) and student f stu(.) networks
map the short segment x, which is randomly sampled from u,
to the corresponding embeddings etea and estu, respectively.
The embeddings are then transformed into respective speaker
posterior probabilities ptea and pstu via a softmax function.
Logit-KD minimizes the KL divergence between the classifica-
tion probabilities outputted from student and teacher networks,
and feature-KD reduces the discrepancies between the student’s
and teacher’s intermediate features.
The logit-based KD and feature-based KD losses can be
formulated as follows
Llogit
KD = KL(ptea||pstu) =
C
X
i=1
ptea
i
log
ptea
i
pstu
i

,
(1a)
Lfeat
KD = 1 −
˜estu · etea
||˜estu|| ||etea||
or
D
X
d=1
(etea
d
−˜estu
d )2, (1b)
where i ∈{1, . . . , C} indexes the classes and D denotes the di-
mension of speaker embeddings. Noted that a projector gstu (.)
may be required to transform estu to ˜estu, enabling the dimen-
sion of the student embeddings to be consistent with that of the
teacher embeddings.
2.2. Inter-Speaker Relations Distillation
Compared to the student network, the teacher network is more
capable of establishing an embedding space where the embed-
dings of different speakers are well-separated and the embed-
dings of the same speaker remain closely clustered. However,
simply forcing the student network’s embeddings to align with
those of the teacher may hinder the student network from devel-
oping its own embedding space, potentially resulting in subopti-
mal performance. To address this limitation, rather than simply
limiting the knowledge transfer through the one-to-one corre-
spondence between the teacher’s and student’s features, we pro-
pose forcing the student network to learn the relations between
the embeddings of different speakers exhibited by the teacher
network.
Fig.
1 shows the overview of the proposed framework.
A mini-batch consisting of N segments from K speakers
(K ≤N) is fed into the two networks. After obtaining the
speaker embeddings of the N segments, a cosine similarity ma-
trix Stea ∈RN×N is constructed to capture the relations be-
tween the K speakers. A masking function is used to remove
the similarity scores from the same speakers. The resulting ma-
trix is defined as:
Stea
k,j =
etea
k
· etea
j
||etea
k || ||etea
j
||,
1 ≤j, k ≤N
and
IDk̸ = IDj,
(2)
where etea
k
and etea
j
represent the embeddings of the j-th and
k-th utterances in the mini-batch, and IDr is the speaker ID of
utterance r. Therefore, after applying the mask, only the sim-
ilarity scores of different speakers (the speaker labels of etea
k
and etea
j
are different) are retained. A similar operation is per-
formed on the student’s embeddings, resulting in a student’s
similarity matrix:
Sstu
k,j =
estu
k
· estu
j
||estu
k || ||estu
j
||,
1 ≤j, k ≤N
and
IDk̸ = IDj.
(3)
Instead of transferring every inter-speaker relation, we de-
vise two strategies to identify and focus on the most infor-
mative speaker pairs.
The similarity scores in Sstu reflect
the student network’s current learning capability. The highest
similarity scores in every row of Sstu are selected to form a
vector sstu =

sstu
1 , . . . , sstu
N

.
The corresponding similar-
ity scores in Stea are extracted to create a matching vector
stea =

stea
1 , . . . , stea
N

. To further promote inter-cluster sepa-
ration, a fixed positive margin m1 is added:
Lrelation-max
KD
=
N
X
l=1
  stea
l
−m1

−sstu
l
2.
(4)
However, the teacher model does not always outperform the stu-
dent network. Thus, Lrelation-max
KD
is reformulated as:
Lrelation-max
KD
=
X
l∈I1

min

stea
l
−m1, sstu
l
	
−sstu
l
2,
(5)
where I1 = {l | stea
l
−m1 < sstu
l
, ∀1 ≤l ≤N} com-
prises a set of indices corresponding to the selected similarity
scores such that the teacher is more capable than the student by
the margin m1.1 In addition to those pairs with the maximum
similarities, we also identify pairs with the largest discrepancies
between the teacher and student networks. After filtering out ir-
relevant similarity scores based on the condition Stea
k,j < Sstu
k,j ,
the gap between similarity scores is computed as:
Sgap
k,j =

min

Stea
k,j , Sstu
k,j
	
−Sstu
k,j
2 ,
1 ≤k, j ≤N. (6)
The largest gaps from every row of Sgap form a vector sgap,
indicating that the student and teacher have large discrepancies
regarding inter-speaker relations. Since these discrepancies are
inherently large, no margin is added to avoid complicating the
1For inter-speaker similarity, the lower the score, the higher the ca-
pability.
5759

Figure 1: Framework of the proposed relation distillation method. A mini-batch of N segments is fed into the teacher and student net-
works. The obtained speaker embeddings are used to compute the inter-speaker relations for the teacher and the student. Considering
the purple marker “a” as an anchor embedding, as shown in Eq. 5, the student network learns to produce Sstu
a,d that matches Stea
a,d
as closely as possible. Sstu
a,c is enforced to match Stea
a,c according to Eqs. 6 and 7. On the other hand, class-center embeddings (the
star markers) are computed offline using the frozen teacher network so that the intra-speaker relations (teacher-to-center) can also be
calculated, facilitating the intra-speaker relation knowledge transfer. The student network is optimized with three losses: relation and
feature distillation losses and classification loss. Squares and circles represent teacher and student embeddings, respectively. Stars
denote class-center embeddings. Different colors indicate different speakers. Red arrows denote the sources of relation distillation.
student’s training process. The gap-based inter-speaker relation
loss is defined as:
Lrelation-gap
KD
=
X
l∈I2
sgap
l
,
(7)
where I2 = {l | sgap
l
> 0, ∀1 ≤l ≤N}. The combination of
these two relation-based strategies helps the student network fo-
cus on the most informative inter-speaker relations, enhancing
the robustness and generalization of the learned speaker em-
beddings. The overall inter-speaker relation distillation loss is
formulated as:
Linter
KD = Lrelation-max
KD
+ Lrelation-gap
KD
(8)
2.3. Intra-Speaker Relations Distillation
In addition to capturing inter-speaker relations for knowledge
distillation, it is equally critical to transfer the intra-speaker re-
lations to the student network. However, with a small batch size
and a large number of training speakers in a dataset, it is un-
likely that a mini-batch contains multiple utterances from the
same speaker, making the modeling of intra-speaker relations
difficult. While it is possible to increase the number of same-
speaker utterances by extracting multiple segments from the
same utterances (similar to contrastive learning in speaker em-
bedding networks), the intra-speaker similarities will be overes-
timated.
To address the above issue, we leverage the pre-trained
teacher network to extract speaker representations from the en-
tire training dataset. These representations are then averaged
for each speaker, producing class-center embeddings ci corre-
sponding to speaker i. The intra-speaker similarities, atea =

atea
1 , . . . , atea
K

, between the teacher’s embeddings and their
respective class-center embeddings, are defined as:
atea
k
=
etea
k
· ck
||etea
k || ||ck||,
1 ≤k ≤K.
(9)
Similarly, intra-speaker relations astu =

astu
1 , . . . , astu
K

for
the student network are calculated using the same class-center
embeddings:
astu
k
=
estu
k
· ck
||estu
k || ||ck||,
1 ≤k ≤K.
(10)
To consider the situation where the student network may out-
perform the teacher, we incorporate a fixed margin m2 into the
intra-speaker relation loss:
Lintra
KD
=
X
l∈I3

max

atea
l
+ m2, astu
l
	
−astu
l
2,
(11)
where I3 =

l | atea
l
+ m2 > astu
l
, ∀1 ≤l ≤K
	
performs a
similar role to I1. The margin m2 allows knowledge distillation
to occur even if the student surpasses the teacher.2
The proposed IDIR framework effectively guides the stu-
dent network in learning both intra-speaker compactness and
inter-speaker separation.
More importantly, this is achieved
without introducing additional computational costs during ei-
ther training or inference. The student network is optimized by
jointly minimizing three KD losses and an AAM-softmax clas-
sification loss [31]. The final objective function is expressed
as:
L = LAAM + ω



Lfeat
KD + Linter
KD + Lintra
KD
|
{z
}
Lrelation
KD



,
(12)
where ω is a hyperparameter that balances the contribution of
the classification loss and the distillation losses.
3. Experimental Settings
The development set of VoxCeleb2 [32] was utilized to train
the student network, while three test sets sampled from Vox-
Celeb1 [33], i.e., Vox1-O, Vox1-E, and Vox1-H, were used to
2For intra-speaker similarity, the higher the score, the higher the ca-
pability.
5760

Table 1: Performance on Vox1-O, Vox1-E, and Vox1-H. The systems in Rows 1 and 2 do not use any KD during training, and they use
the teacher and student networks during inference, respectively. Except for Row 3, all experiments were conducted using a 512-dim
speaker embedding network .
System
Row
Distillation
Type
Feature Distillation
Loss Metric
#Param(M)
during inferencing
Vox1-O
EER%/minDCF
Vox1-E
EER%/minDCF
Vox1-H
EER%/minDCF
Teacher model
WavLM + ECAPA-TDNN
1
–
N/A
316.62
0.43/–
0.54/–
1.15/–
Student model
x-vector
2
–
N/A
4.39
1.99/–
1.95/–
3.41/–
3
Embedding (dim=256)
Cosine
1.93/0.199
1.86/0.203
3.18/0.289
4
Embedding
MSE
1.73/0.173
1.74/0.194
3.02/0.287
5
Embedding
Cosine
1.63/0.163
1.72/0.194
3.03/0.292
6
Embedding + Relation (all)
Cosine
1.74/0.165
1.76/0.193
3.02/0.288
7
Embedding + Relation (selected)
Cosine
1.55/0.171
1.70/0.195
2.94/0.282
8
Logit + Embedding
Cosine
1.65/0.175
1.70/0.184
2.94/0.278
9
Logit + Embedding + Relation (selected)
Cosine
1.57/0.143
1.65/0.182
2.89/0.274
evaluate the performance of the proposed method. During train-
ing, we fed the augmented waveform of a short segment con-
taining 200 frames to the frozen teacher model. 80-dim Mel-
filter bank features were extracted and then presented to the stu-
dent network after applying augmentations. MUSAN [34] and
RIR [35] were adopted in the augmentation process.
The teacher model comprises a large WavLM combined
with a powerful ECAPA-TDNN pretrained on LibriSpeech, and
subsequently fine-tuned on VoxCeleb2. A simple x-vector net-
work was selected as the student. An additional projector com-
prising a linear layer followed by a normalization layer and an
activation function is employed to match the dimension. It was
removed during the inference stage.
In the proposed method, the parameter ω was increased
from 0.05 to 1 during the first 20 epochs. The margins m1 and
m2 were set to 0.3. MSE and Mean Absolute Error (MAE) were
used interchangeably when computing relation distillation loss.
In AAM-softmax, the margin was gradually increased from 0
to 0.2, and the scale was set to 32. During inference, speaker
embeddings with a dimension of 512 were extracted from the
student network. A cosine similarity score was computed for
each trial. Both EER and minDCF were reported for compari-
son.
Table 2: Comparions with the previous works on Vox1-O.
Row
Method
Vox1-O
EER% /minDCF
1
Vanilla logit-level KD
1.74/0.162
2
Vanilla feature-level KD
1.63/0.163
3
DKD [22]
1.56/0.166
4
IDIR with logit-level KD
1.57/0.143
5
IDIR
1.55/0.171
4. Results and Discussions
4.1. Main Results
Table 1 presents the performance of various feature-based KD
methods across three test sets. Notably, the proposed method
(Row 7) achieves superior performance compared to the base-
line (Row 5), with a significant margin on Vox1-O and Vox1-
H. This highlights the effectiveness of incorporating relational
knowledge to enhance the KD process. Comparing Row 6 and
Row 7 reveals that selecting all relations for knowledge trans-
fer worsens the performance, as the student network is un-
able to replicate each pairwise relation, indicating the neces-
sity of identifying informative relations. Furthermore, when
compared to a simple x-vector network trained solely with the
classification loss, our method achieves the most substantial
relative improvements in EER, with reductions of 23%, 12%,
and 14% on Vox1-O, Vox1-E, and Vox1-H, respectively. Us-
ing MSE to align the teacher and student embedding yields in-
ferior results on Vox1-O compared to using the cosine crite-
rion, as evidenced in Row 4 and Row 5. This suggests that the
cosine-based alignment provides more flexibility for the stu-
dent’s learning. However, the performance improvements on
Vox1-O and Vox1-E are marginal when combining logit-level
KD with embedding-level KD, as reported in Row 5 and Row 8.
We conjectured that this limited improvement could be caused
by gradient conflicts between the objectives of logit-level and
embedding-level KD, which could hinder the optimization pro-
cess. Nevertheless, after integrating relational knowledge trans-
fer, noticeable enhancements are observed across three test
sets. This demonstrates that relational knowledge effectively
complements embedding-level and logit-level KD by capturing
structural relationships within a mini-batch. The integration not
only alleviates potential gradient conflicts but also enriches the
knowledge distilled to the student model, leading to consistent
and significant performance gains across Vox1-O, Vox1-E, and
Vox1-H.
4.2. Comparisons with the Existing Works
To further demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed
method, the comparisons on Vox1-O between our approach and
other advanced methods are presented in Table. 2. The results
clearly show that the proposed method could achieve the best
performance. Even compared with DKD [22], which is consid-
ered one of the SOTA approaches, our method delivers compet-
itive results, as evidenced by the comparison between Row 3
and Row 5. This underscores the merits of IDIR, which pro-
vides an effective solution without requiring additional compu-
tational overhead.
5. Conclusions
In this paper, we developed a feature-based distillation frame-
work to capture the relations between different speakers within
a mini-batch. Rather than transferring relations for all possi-
ble speaker pairs, we identified the informative inter-speaker
relations and intra-speaker relations for knowledge transfer, en-
abling the student network to learn useful knowledge.
The
experimental results substantiate the effectiveness of the pro-
posed method, offering a viable alternative for KD. Further-
more, when integrated with logit-level KD, our method yields
promising results.
5761

6. References
[1] Y. Tu, W. Lin, and M.-W. Mak, “A survey on text-dependent and
text-independent speaker verification,” IEEE Access, vol. 10, pp.
99 038–99 049, 2022.
[2] T. Kinnunen and H. Li, “An overview of text-independent speaker
recognition: From features to supervectors,” Speech Communica-
tion, vol. 52, no. 1, pp. 12–40, 2010.
[3] J. S. Chung, A. Nagrani, and A. Zisserman, “VoxCeleb2: Deep
speaker recognition,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2018.
[4] J.-w. Jung, Y. J. Kim, H.-S. Heo, B.-J. Lee, Y. Kwon, and J. S.
Chung, “Pushing the limits of raw waveform speaker recogni-
tion,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2022.
[5] L. Li, R. Nai, and D. Wang, “Real additive margin softmax for
speaker verification,” in Proc. International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing, 2022, pp. 7527–7531.
[6] N. Dehak, P. J. Kenny, R. Dehak, P. Dumouchel, and P. Ouellet,
“Front-end factor analysis for speaker verification,” IEEE Trans-
actions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, vol. 19,
no. 4, pp. 788–798, 2010.
[7] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A. N.
Gomez, Ł. Kaiser, and I. Polosukhin, “Attention is all you need,”
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 30,
2017.
[8] S. Chen, C. Wang, Z. Chen, Y. Wu, S. Liu, Z. Chen, J. Li,
N. Kanda, T. Yoshioka, X. Xiao et al., “WavLM: Large-scale self-
supervised pre-training for full stack speech processing,” IEEE
Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing, vol. 16, no. 6,
pp. 1505–1518, 2022.
[9] W.-N. Hsu, B. Bolte, Y.-H. H. Tsai, K. Lakhotia, R. Salakhut-
dinov, and A. Mohamed, “HuBERT: Self-supervised speech
representation learning by masked prediction of hidden units,”
IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Pro-
cessing, vol. 29, pp. 3451–3460, 2021.
[10] A. Baevski, Y. Zhou, A. Mohamed, and M. Auli, “wav2vec
2.0: A framework for self-supervised learning of speech repre-
sentations,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
vol. 33, pp. 12 449–12 460, 2020.
[11] D. Snyder, D. Garcia-Romero, G. Sell, D. Povey, and S. Khudan-
pur, “X-vectors: Robust DNN embeddings for speaker recogni-
tion,” in Proc. International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
Signal Processing, 2018, pp. 5329–5333.
[12] B. Desplanques, J. Thienpondt, and K. Demuynck, “ECAPA-
TDNN: Emphasized Channel Attention, Propagation and Ag-
gregation in TDNN Based Speaker Verification,” in Proc. Inter-
speech, 2020, pp. 3830–3834.
[13] S. wen Yang, P.-H. Chi, Y.-S. Chuang, and et al, “SUPERB:
Speech Processing Universal PERformance Benchmark,” in Proc.
Interspeech, 2021, pp. 1194–1198.
[14] Z. Chen, S. Chen, Y. Wu, Y. Qian, C. Wang, S. Liu, Y. Qian,
and M. Zeng, “Large-scale self-supervised speech representation
learning for automatic speaker verification,” in Proc. International
Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing, 2022,
pp. 6147–6151.
[15] J. Peng, T. Stafylakis, R. Gu, O. Plchot, L. Moˇsner, L. Burget, and
J. ˇCernock`y, “Parameter-efficient transfer learning of pre-trained
transformer models for speaker verification using adapters,” in
Proc. International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing, 2023, pp. 1–5.
[16] Z. Li, M.-W. Mak, H.-y. Lee, and H. Meng, “Parameter-efficient
fine-tuning of speaker-aware dynamic prompts for speaker verifi-
cation,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2024, pp. 2675–2679.
[17] Z. Liu, M. Sun, T. Zhou, G. Huang, and T. Darrell, “Rethinking
the value of network pruning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.05270,
2018.
[18] T. Liang, J. Glossner, L. Wang, S. Shi, and X. Zhang, “Pruning
and quantization for deep neural network acceleration: A survey,”
Neurocomputing, vol. 461, pp. 370–403, 2021.
[19] G. Hinton, O. Vinyals, and J. Dean, “Distilling the knowledge in
a neural network,” in NIPS Deep Learning and Representation
Learning Workshop, 2015.
[20] X. Liu, M. Sahidullah, and T. Kinnunen, “Distilling multi-level x-
vector knowledge for small-footprint speaker verification,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2303.01125, 2023.
[21] S. Wang, Y. Yang, T. Wang, Y. Qian, and K. Yu, “Knowledge dis-
tillation for small foot-print deep speaker embedding,” in Proc.
International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Pro-
cessing, 2019, pp. 6021–6025.
[22] D.-T. Truong, R. Tao, J. Q. Yip, K. A. Lee, and E. S. Chng, “Em-
phasized non-target speaker knowledge in knowledge distillation
for automatic speaker verification,” in Proc. International Con-
ference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing, 2024, pp.
10 336–10 340.
[23] T.-W. Chen, C.-P. Chen, C.-L. Lu, B.-C. Chan, Y.-H. Cheng, H.-
F. Chuang, and W.-Y. Chen, “A lightweight speaker verification
model for edge device,” in Proc. Asia Pacific Signal and Infor-
mation Processing Association Annual Summit and Conference,
2023, pp. 1372–1377.
[24] C.-X. Gan, Y. Tu, Z. Jin, M.-W. Mak, and K. A. Lee, “Grouped
knowledge distillation with adaptive logit softening for speaker
recognition,” in Proc. IEEE International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing.
IEEE, 2025, pp. 1–5.
[25] Z. Jin, Y. Tu, C.-X. Gan, M.-W. Mak, and K.-A. Lee, “Adver-
sarially adaptive temperatures for decoupled knowledge distilla-
tion with applications to speaker verification,” Neurocomputing,
p. 129481, 2025.
[26] J. Heo, C. yeong Lim, J. ho Kim, H. seo Shin, and H.-J. Yu,
“One-step knowledge distillation and fine-tuning in using large
pre-trained self-supervised learning models for speaker verifica-
tion,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2023, pp. 5271–5275.
[27] Z. Jin, Y. Tu, Z. Li, Z. Huang, C.-X. Gan, and M.-W. Mak, “De-
noising student features with diffusion models for knowledge dis-
tillation in speaker verification,” in Proc. IEEE International Con-
ference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing. IEEE, 2025,
pp. 1–5.
[28] Y. Jin, G. Hu, H. Chen, D. Miao, L. Hu, and C. Zhao, “Cross-
modal distillation for speaker recognition,” in Proceedings of the
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, vol. 37, no. 11, 2023,
pp. 12 977–12 985.
[29] W. Park, D. Kim, Y. Lu, and M. Cho, “Relational knowledge dis-
tillation,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Com-
puter Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2019, pp. 3967–3976.
[30] Q. Gu, Y. Song, N. Jiang, P. Cai, and I. McLoughlin, “PNP-RKD:
A positive-negative pair based relational knowledge distillation
method for cross-domain speaker verification,” in Proc. IEEE In-
ternational Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Process-
ing.
IEEE, 2025, pp. 1–5.
[31] Z. Huang, S. Wang, and K. Yu, “Angular softmax for short-
duration text-independent speaker verification.” in Proc. Inter-
speech, 2018, pp. 3623–3627.
[32] A. Nagrani, J. S. Chung, W. Xie, and A. Zisserman, “VoxCeleb:
Large-scale speaker verification in the wild,” Computer Speech &
Language, vol. 60, p. 101027, 2020.
[33] A. Nagrani, J. S. Chung, and A. Zisserman, “VoxCeleb: a large-
scale speaker identification dataset,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2017.
[34] D. Snyder, G. Chen, and D. Povey, “MUSAN: A music, speech,
and noise corpus,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1510.08484, 2015.
[35] T. Ko, V. Peddinti, D. Povey, M. L. Seltzer, and S. Khudanpur,
“A study on data augmentation of reverberant speech for robust
speech recognition,” in Proc. International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing, 2017, pp. 5220–5224.
5762

