warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
A Multimodal Chinese Dataset for Cross-lingual Sarcasm Detection
Xiyuan Gao1, Bruce Xiao Wang2, Meiling Zhang1, Shuming Huang2, Zhu Li1, Shekhar Nayak1, Matt
Coler1
1Speech Technology Lab, University of Groningen, the Netherlands
2English and Communication, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong
xiyuan.gao@rug.nl, brucex.wang@polyu.edu.hk, m.zhang.43@student.rug.nl, shuming.huang@polyu.edu.hk,
zhu.li@rug.nl, s.nayak@rug.nl, m.coler@rug.nl
Abstract
Sarcasm is expressed through subtle cues like pitch, speech rate,
and facial expressions, with patterns varying across languages,
e.g., English speakers lower the pitch while Cantonese speakers
raise it. While humans readily interpret these signals, computa-
tional models struggle, creating challenges for Human-Machine
Interaction. Most multimodal sarcasm recognition research fo-
cuses on English and the lack of high-quality datasets for other
languages hinders cross-lingual and cross-cultural studies. We
introduce the Multimodal Chinese Sarcasm Dataset (MCSD),
containing 10.57 hours of video. We propose a standardized an-
notation framework that captures annotator certainty to reflect
the subjectivity of sarcasm, achieving a Fleiss’kappa of 0.74
(unweighted) and 0.79 (certainty-weighted). Validation of our
dataset using SVM achieves a 76.64% F1-score in sarcasm de-
tection. MCSD lays the foundation for robust cross-lingual sar-
casm detection, contributing to advanced, human-centric sys-
tems.
Index Terms: multimodal sarcasm dataset, human-machine in-
teraction, computational paralinguistics
1. Introduction
Sarcasm relies not just on what is said, but on how it is said, inte-
grating verbal content with non-verbal cues like pitch, speaking
rate, and facial expressions. For humans, these multimodal sig-
nals are essential for processing non-literal language [1]. More
specifically, Jacob et al.[2] suggested that the incongruity be-
tween verbal and non-verbal cues plays a key role in facilitating
sarcasm comprehension. While modern AI systems like voice
assistants and chatbots are increasingly prevalent in daily life,
they still struggle to understand non-literal language use like sar-
casm.
Current AI systems in Human-Machine Interaction (HMI)
struggle to detect sarcasm reliably. However, researchers have
found that a multimodal approach offers a promising solution to
interpret sarcasm with greater precision [3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8]. These
multimodal approaches have been proven more effective than
unimodal methods. However, most existing methods are based
on English data, leaving cross-lingual and cross-cultural studies
unexplored. Additionally, existing multimodal sarcasm datasets
are limited in size (e.g., MUStARD [3] contains 690 utterances)
compared to those of related fields, which may hinder the gen-
eralizability and robustness of models trained on them. Fur-
thermore, the inherent ambiguity of sarcasm poses challenges
in standardizing the annotation process, leading to low Inter-
Annotator Agreement (IAA) and weak reliability. For example,
the MUStARD [3] dataset achieved an IAA score of 0.59, indi-
cating weak annotator consensus.
These limitations restrict the development of multilingual
systems. To tackle them, we introduce a novel, well-curated
Multimodal Chinese Sarcasm Dataset (MCSD). The dataset
consists of 10.57 hours of video from stand-up comedy shows,
with a balanced distribution of sarcastic and non-sarcastic in-
stances. We propose a standardized and replicable annotation
protocol, enhancing reproducibility within the community. Our
protocol includes a linguistics-based conceptual framework of
sarcasm definition, and a streamlined manual annotation pro-
cess. We achieve an unweighted Fleiss’ kappa of 0.74 and a
certainty-weighted value of 0.79, indicating substantial consen-
sus, and validating the efficiency and effectiveness of our an-
notation strategy. Finally, we apply a Support Vector Machine
(SVM) to assess the dataset’s feasibility for multimodal sarcasm
detection. The main contributions of our paper are as follows:
• We introduce a novel multimodal sarcasm dataset in Man-
darin Chinese, laying the groundwork for cross-lingual stud-
ies of sarcasm.
• We incorporate linguistic insights in constructing the annota-
tion guideline to balance sarcasm’s inherent ambiguity with
annotator variability in interpretation.
• We optimize efficiency while maintaining data integrity by
proposing a sarcasm-first strategy for annotation.
• We standardize the data collection and annotation pipeline to
enhance reproducibility and foster the development of reli-
able cross-lingual datasets. We ensure ethical compliance in
data collection, prioritizing privacy concerns and maintaining
research transparency.
This paper is organized as follows:
Section 2 reviews
related work.
Section 3 introduces the dataset and curation
method. Section 4 details the experiment and results. Section
5 discusses the findings. Section 6 concludes the paper and ex-
plains future research directions.
2. Related works
2.1. Multimodal sarcasm detection
Castro et al.[3] introduced MUStARD, an English multimodal
sarcasm dataset from American sitcoms, achieving 71.5% F1-
score with multimodal SVM. Building on this, Zhang et al.[9]
developed a contrastive-attention architecture that improved
performance to 72.26% F1-score by capturing incongruities be-
tween verbal and non-verbal cues. Ray et al.[4] expanded the
MUStARD dataset to MUStARD++, doubling its size and en-
riching the annotations with emotions, sentiments, and refined
subtype sarcasm labels. They employed a collaborative gating
architecture and achieved a 70.3% F1-score using multimodal
data. Sequentially, Devraj et al.[7] employed a Graph Attention
Network to capture the intra-modal dependencies alongside a
cross-modal Contrastive Attention Mechanism designed to cap-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
3968
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1632

ture emotional incongruities between modalities. Their multi-
modal approach achieved a 74.96% F1-score.
Previous research suggests that integrating multimodal data
is an effective way to enhance computational models’ ability
to recognize sarcasm. Not only addressing data scarcity by in-
corporating more sarcasm-related content, the multimodal ap-
proach also captures the subtle nuances of sarcastic expressions
by leveraging sophisticated architectures.
2.2. Limitations of current multimodal sarcasm datasets
Overall, current multimodal sarcasm datasets face several lim-
itations: (a) lack of linguistic diversity, with most datasets fo-
cused on English; (b) insufficient data volume, with the largest
dataset (MUStARD++) containing only 7.36 hours of video.
Meanwhile, traditional annotation strategies exhaustively label
all utterances as sarcastic or non-sarcastic, assuming class bal-
ance and relying on binary decisions [3, 4, 10, 11]. This over-
looks the subjective and context-dependent nature of sarcasm,
leading to inefficiencies and low IAA scores (0.59-0.68) [3, 6,
12, 13, 5]. To generate a high-quality dataset, it is essential to
take into account the inherent ambiguity of sarcasm and the vari-
ability in how annotators perceive and interpret sarcasm.
3. MCSD dataset
We introduce MCSD, a well-curated collection of annotated
stand-up comedy videos. We propose a framework that im-
plements a sarcasm-first approach and subset re-annotation to
streamline the process. Moreover, we standardize the collection
and annotation pipeline to ensure reproducibility. The detailed
annotation process and dataset are available on our github1.
3.1. Data collection
We aim to capture sarcasm as it appears in everyday conver-
sations, reflecting both individual stylistic differences and de-
mographic diversity to ensure a representative collection of sar-
castic expressions. We selected the Chinese stand-up comedy
show Talk Show Gala for its rich sarcastic content and diverse
range of speakers. The data consists of six seasons in MP4 for-
mat2, with each season containing ten to twelve episodes. These
videos were then manually annotated for sarcasm.
3.2. Annotation process
3.2.1. Annotation guidelines
Defining sarcasm is far more nuanced than classifying images
as cats or dogs. The interpretation of sarcasm can vary signifi-
cantly based on annotators’ cultural backgrounds and personal
understanding, leading to inconsistencies. Rather than suppress-
ing the discrepancies, we capture the natural diversity in sar-
castic expression. To respond to it, we developed annotation
guidelines comprising: (a) sarcasm definition and characteris-
tics, (b) examples of sarcastic and non-sarcastic expressions,
and (c) self-testing cases.
Our conceptual framework draws
from linguistic theories to define sarcasm as expressions where
the intended meaning differs from the literal statement. These
expressions typically serve purposes such as self-deprecation,
critique, mocking, or humor. Sarcasm can be expressed uni-
modally or multimodally through words, tone, facial expres-
1https://github.com/x-y-g/MCSD/wiki
2We utilized the platform’s official API ( https://developers.google.
com/youtube/v3/getting-started/?target=_blank and ensured compli-
ance with fair use guidelines in research.
sions, and body languages. Sarcastic remarks can also be con-
veyed through rhetorical devices like hyperbole, understatement
and mockery imitation. Our guideline provides annotators com-
prehensive key features of sarcasm while allowing the flexibility
to interpret. To maintain quality and consistency, we employed
three annotators with linguistics background and provided them
with training, held weekly meetings to review examples and ad-
dress ambiguous cases through discussion, progressively refin-
ing alignment.
3.2.2. Annotation strategy
To create a balanced dataset and avoid inessential effort annotat-
ing non-sarcastic instances, which dominate in natural discourse
(>95%), we adopted a novel sarcasm-first strategy. Unlike prior
work that performs segmentation and annotation across the en-
tire dataset, our sarcasm-first strategy prioritizes the identifica-
tion and annotation of sarcastic utterances. Each is paired with
a nearby non-sarcastic segment to maintain balance. Annota-
tors used LosslessCut3 to select and extract the target instances
directly. This strategy not only improved annotation efficiency,
but also preserved the natural context for sarcasm interpretation.
3.2.3. IAA calculation
To assess annotation reliability, annotators blindly re-annotating
10-20% of each other’s samples that are randomly sampled [14].
Sarcasm was treated as a spectrum and annotators marked the
certainty (very certain = 2, somewhat certain = 1). We calcu-
lated Fleiss’ Kappa using the statsmodels package4. The un-
weighted agreement was 0.74, and when weighted by certainty,
it increased to 0.79, indicating substantial agreement.
3.3. Data statistics
We reviewed all videos, removing corrupted files and segments
with incomplete sentences. The final dataset contains 1,350 sar-
castic and 1,355 non-sarcastic instances, totaling 2,705 videos
and 10.57 hours of data. We used Whisper-base5 to transcribe
videos, followed by thorough manual post-editing to ensure ac-
curate alignment with the video content. Detailed statistics are
provided in Table 1.
Table 1: Statistical summary of the dataset
Metric
Value
Avg. length (tokens)
41
Avg. duration (sec)
14
Total duration (hour)
10.57
Total video
2705
No. of sarcasm
1350
No. of non-sarcasm
1355
The dataset exhibits three main characteristics:
• Multimodal complexity: The data combines verbal cues
with nonverbal ones, such as prosody, timing, facial ex-
pressions, and body gestures, with sarcasm often conveyed
through their interplay. Figure 1 illustrates how incongruity
among these cues conveys sarcasm.
• Contextual dependency: Sarcastic remarks usually occur at
the end of a discourse, while the preceding context is essential
for accurate interpretation. In the dataset, each video includes
3https://github.com/mifi/lossless-cut?tab=readme-ov-file
4https://www.statsmodels.org/stable/index.html
5https://github.com/openai/whisper
3969

Figure 1: An example of sarcasm expressed through multimodal
cues.
The blue lines superimposed on spectrogram indicate
pitch; yellow lines indicate intensity (dB).
Figure 2: Utterance distribution for the top 10 speakers. Over-
all, 139 speakers are included, each contributing a balanced
number of sarcastic and non-sarcastic instances.
necessary context.
• Diverse speakers: The dataset features 139 speakers （37
females, 102 males), each with distinct speaking styles. This
diversity enhances the generalizability of the dataset. Figure 2
shows the utterance distribution of the top 10 speakers, with
Hu Lan contributing the most (165 utterances).
Our data collection and annotation process captures the
pragmatic nature of sarcasm, yielding a high-quality dataset that
enhances reliability and reproducibility.
4. Experiments
In this section, we conduct experiments to validate the col-
lected dataset, particularly, we examine the contribution of each
modality and their combinations. Given that SVM has been ef-
fectively used to benchmark sarcasm detection in English, we
adopt it to assess the effectiveness of our dataset.
4.1. Feature extraction
We obtain features from the text (t), audio (a) and visual (v) of
our dataset:
Text features: We use BERT-Chinese6 to extract text em-
beddings. Each input is tokenized into τ tokens via WordPiece
tokenization7, producing dt = 768-dimensional contextual em-
6https://huggingface.co/google-bert/bert-base-chinese
7https://research.google/blog/
a-fast-wordpiece-tokenization-system/
beddings for each token. The entire utterance’s embedding is
represented as Ut ∈Rτ×dt, with the [CLS] token providing a
fixed-size global representation.
Audio features: We apply Wav2Vec 2.0 fine-tuned on Chi-
nese8 to extract audio embeddings. Input WAV files are first
converted to mono and resampled at 16 kHz. The model ap-
plies a multi-layer CNN encoder to extract low-level acous-
tic features. These are then passed through a transformer net-
work to capture dependencies and contextual relationships in
speech. The resulting frame-level embeddings are denoted as:
Ua ∈Rw×da where w is the number of extracted audio frames,
and dt = 1024 is the dimension of each frame embedding. Last,
we aggregate the embeddings by averaging all frame-level em-
beddings.
Visual features: We employ TimeSformer9 [15] to extract
visual embeddings. Input videos are resized to 224x224 and nor-
malized for consistency. We extract f = 8 frames from video,
dividing each into patches and projecting them into dv = 768-
dimensional embeddings. These embeddings pass through spa-
tiotemporal transformer layers to produce frame-level represen-
tations, Uv ∈Rf×dv. To obtain a fixed-size video representa-
tion, we compute the mean of all frame embeddings.
To generate a unified representation from all modalities, we
concatenate embeddings generated from each modality.
4.2. Experimental setup
We perform five-fold cross-validation to evaluate model perfor-
mance, using Stratified K-folds to ensure balanced class distri-
bution between sarcastic and non-sarcastic samples. One fold is
used as the test set, while the remaining four are split 85-15% for
training and hyperparameter tuning. Hyperparameters are tuned
via GridSearchCV, exploring combinations of C = [0.01, 0.1, 1,
10], kernel = [linear, rbf], and gamma = [0.0001, 0.001, 0.01,
0.1]. The best parameters (C = 10, gamma = 0.0001, kernel =
rbf) are used to train the SVM model with sklearn. We evaluate
model performance using precision (P), recall (R), and F1-score
(F1) to ensure consistency with related research in English.
5. Results
Table 2 presents a comparison of performance across different
modalities in our dataset. The highest performance is achieved
when data from all three modalities are used, reaching 76.64%,
surpassing all unimodal scores. Audio achieves a high score
(74.94%), while text and visual scores are lower unimodally.
These results validate that a multimodal approach enhances sar-
casm recognition performance in Chinese.
Table 2: Comparative performances (macro) on MCSD. T indi-
cates text modality, A indicates audio modality, and V indicates
visual modality.
Models
Modality
P (%)
R (%)
F1 (%)
SVM
T
69.83
69.85
69.78
A
75.02
74.99
74.94
V
56.29
56.09
55.47
T+A
74.63
74.63
74.55
T+V
70.47
70.45
70.38
A+V
73.78
73.78
73.76
T+A+V
76.69
76.72
76.64
8https://huggingface.co/jonatasgrosman/
wav2vec2-large-xlsr-53-chinese-zh-cn
9https://github.com/facebookresearch/TimeSformer
3970

Table 3: Examples of mis-recognizing sarcasm with contextual
nuance. S means Sarcasm, NS means Non-sarcasm.
Index
Utterance
True
Predicted
319
但是我还是很吃惊，一个节目拒
绝一个人的理由居然可以是不够
好看。这放在今天绝对是不可思
议的。你比如说在这个脱口秀大
会的舞台上。
S
NS
Translation: I’m still shocked that a
show would reject someone just for
not being good-looking. That’s al-
most unthinkable today, especially
on a stage like this one.
325
那帮人也不会放过我了。我豁出
去了，自从我说了脱口秀以后，我
冬天出门再也不觉得冷了，因为
我头上扣的全是帽子。
S
NS
Translation: Those people won’t let
me off either. I’ve decided to go all
in. Ever since I started doing stand-
up, I never feel cold when I go out in
winter, because I’m always wearing
hats.
We performed a qualitative analysis of misclassified exam-
ples to identify error patterns. We found that speaker style poses
a challenge for the model. Analyzing the top five speakers re-
sponsible for false positives (FP) and false negatives (FN), we
observed that four of these speakers contribute to both errors
when using visual data alone.
While adding text and audio
modalities reduces the overall error rate, these speakers remain
problematic. Their reliance on text, tonal changes, stress, and
tempo, rather than visual cues, is challenging for sarcasm recog-
nition, particularly with visual data alone.
Additionally, the model struggles with recognizing sarcasm
when it relies on subtle contextual cues. For example, utter-
ance 319 in Table 3, the phrase “on the stage of this stand-up
comedy show” is interpreted as sarcastic only when the audi-
ence captures that the speaker is implying the lack of attractive
comedians in the show, which is repeatedly emphasized in the
show, though not explicitly stated here. Similarly, in utterance
325, the speaker says, the sarcastic meaning is conveyed when
the audience understands the Chinese idiom 扣帽子(translated
to: putting hats on someone), refers to unfairly labeling or crit-
icizing someone.
6. Discussion
Our analysis reveals important differences in how sarcasm man-
ifests across languages. While we confirm that multimodal anal-
ysis improves sarcasm detection in Chinese, as it does in En-
glish, the relative importance of different modalities varies be-
tween languages. In contrast to English [3], visual modality per-
formed the weakest in Chinese. This can be attributed to tech-
nical limitation, data source, and culture differences: (a) We ex-
perimented with ViT10, which allowed an increased frame rate of
16, resulting in a decreased performance of 45.27%. This high-
lights the importance of dynamic context in the visual modality
and calls for further technical exploration. (b) Our dataset, from
stand-up comedy, values scripting that emphasizes textual and
speech for sarcasm, whereas the MUStARD dataset, based on
TV performances, relies more on visual cues. (c) Also, cross-
cultural differences explain the varying role of visual modality
10https://github.com/google-research/vision_transformer
in sarcasm detection. Following Hall’s [16] framework, Chi-
nese, as a high-context culture, relies more on situational and
contextual cues, while English-speaking cultures favor explicit
visual signals like facial expressions. This cultural distinction is
reflected in the research focus, with extensive studies on visual
cues in English [17, 18, 19] but limited exploration in Chinese.
The audio modality is significant for sarcasm detection in
Mandarin Chinese due to its tonal nature. Research by Li et
al.[20] demonstrates that emotional expressions correlate with
specific tone patterns, suggesting a complex interaction between
lexical tones and sarcastic expression. More research is needed
to reveal the specific tonal change related to sarcasm expression
in Mandarin Chinese.
7. Conclusion and future work
To advance cross-lingual and cross-cultural sarcasm recognition
in HMI, we introduce:
• A novel, multimodal Chinese sarcasm dataset: It com-
prises 10.57 hours of stand-up comedy videos, balanced for
sarcasm and non-sarcasm labels.
• Linguistic insights: The annotation is based on a concep-
tual framework derived from linguistic research, mitigating
sarcasm’s inherent ambiguity while preserving interpretative
diversity. Unlike prior work that treats sarcasm as a binary
label, we incorporate certainty levels in sarcasm labeling to
capture varying intensities of sarcasm.
• Annotation efficiency: We strategically optimize the anno-
tation process by a sarcasm-first approach, reducing manual
effort while maintaining high data quality, in contrast to fully
exhaustive annotation pipelines used in earlier datasets.
• Standardization: We establish a data collection and annota-
tion pipeline to enhance reproducibility and support reliable
sarcasm dataset development. Ethical compliance, privacy
concerns, and research transparency are considered and pri-
oritized during our data collection.
However, we acknowledge the limitations: (a) Sarcasm, as
noted by Camp [21], includes subtypes like propositional, em-
bedded, like-prefixed, and illocutionary sarcasm. Incorporating
detailed subtypes into our dataset would provide a more nuanced
perspective. (b) Our dataset captures diversity in geographic re-
gions, accents, and speaking styles; however, 73% of the speak-
ers are male. Since sarcasm varies by gender [22], balancing
gender representation ensures robust model performance. Addi-
tionally, our dataset currently focuses on stand-up comedy. This
domain was intentionally selected due to its rich use of diverse
sarcasm subtypes and high-quality visual cues. Nonetheless, we
acknowledge the limitation in domain scope and will extend fu-
ture data collection to broader contexts to improve generaliz-
ability.
Looking ahead, we plan to expand the dataset by refining
sarcasm subtypes, enriching emotion labels, and increasing gen-
der diversity. Future work will benchmark MCSD to assess
cross-lingual generalizability. Our study highlights the need for
further research in Chinese sarcasm, particularly the role of vi-
sual cues and the interaction between lexical tone and sarcas-
tic intent. These efforts will support cross-lingual studies and
contribute to the development of multilingual systems for more
human-centric HMI.
3971

8. Acknowledgements
This research was supported by the EU COST Action CA19102
“Language In The Human-Machine Era” (LITHME) under the
Short Term Scientific Missions (STSMs) framework. We are
grateful for the support of Dr. Bruce Xiao Wang and the Depart-
ment of English and Communication at The Hong Kong Poly-
technic University for hosting the research visit associated with
this project. We also extend our sincere thanks to Devraj Raghu-
vanshi from the Department of Data Science at Brown Univer-
sity for his valuable contributions to this work.
9. References
[1] G. Deliens, K. Antoniou, E. Clin, E. Ostashchenko, and M. Kis-
sine, “Context, facial expression and prosody in irony processing,”
J. Mem. Lang., vol. 99, pp. 35–48, 2018.
[2] H. Jacob, B. Kreifelts, S. Nizielski, A. Schütz, and D. Wildgruber,
“Effects of emotional intelligence on the impression of irony cre-
ated by the mismatch between verbal and nonverbal cues,” PLOS
ONE, vol. 11, no. 10, pp. 1–17, 2016.
[3] S. Castro, D. Hazarika, V. Pérez-Rosas, R. Zimmermann, R. Mi-
halcea, and S. Poria, “Towards multimodal sarcasm detection (an
_obviously_ perfect paper),” in Proc. 57th Annu. Meeting Assoc.
Comput. Linguistics (ACL), Florence, Italy, Aug. 2019, pp. 4619–
4629.
[4] A. Ray, S. Mishra, A. Nunna, and P. Bhattacharyya, “A multi-
modal corpus for emotion recognition in sarcasm,” in Proc. 13th
Lang. Resour. Eval. Conf. (LREC), Marseille, France, June 2022,
pp. 6992–7003.
[5] D. S. Chauhan, D. S. R, A. Ekbal, and P. Bhattacharyya, “Sen-
timent and emotion help sarcasm? a multi-task learning frame-
work for multi-modal sarcasm, sentiment, and emotion analysis,”
in Proc. 58th Annu. Meet. Assoc. Comput. Linguistics (ACL), Seat-
tle, WA, USA, Jul. 2020, pp. 4351–4360.
[6] D. S. Chauhan, G. Singh, A. Arora, A. Ekbal, and P. Bhat-
tacharyya, “An emoji-aware multitask framework for multimodal
sarcasm detection,” Knowl.-Based Syst., vol. 257, 2022, doi:
10.1016/j.knosys.2022.109924.
[7] D. Raghuvanshi, X. Gao, Z. Li, S. Bansal, M. Sharma, and
S. Nayak, “Intra-modal relation and emotional incongruity learn-
ing using graph attention networks for multimodal sarcasm detec-
tion,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Acoust., Speech, Signal Process.
(ICASSP), Hyderabad, India, 2025, pp. 1–5.
[8] X. Gao, S. Nayak, and M. Coler, “Improving sarcasm detection
from speech and text through attention-based fusion exploiting
the interplay of emotions and sentiments,” in Proc. Meet. Acoust.,
vol. 54, no. 1, Jan. 2024, p. 060002, doi:10.1121/2.0001918.
[9] X. Zhang, Y. Chen, and G. Li, “Multi-modal sarcasm detection
based on contrastive attention mechanism,” in Proc. Nat. Lang.
Process. Chin. Comput., vol. 13028, 2021, pp. 822–833.
[10] K. Alnajjar and M. Hämäläinen, “¡Qué maravilla! multimodal
sarcasm detection in spanish: A dataset and a baseline,” in Proc.
3rd Workshop Multimodal Artif. Intell., Mexico City, Mexico, Jun.
2021, pp. 63–68.
[11] H. Gent, C. Adams, C. Shih, and Y. Tang, “Deep learning for
acoustic irony classification in spontaneous speech,” in Proc. In-
terspeech, Incheon, South Korea, Sep. 2022, pp. 3993–3997.
[12] K. Alnajjar and M. Hämäläinen, “¡Qué maravilla! multimodal
sarcasm detection in spanish: A dataset and a baseline,” in Proc.
3rd Workshop Multimodal Artif. Intell., Mexico City, Mexico, Jun.
2021, pp. 63–68.
[13] M. Bedi, S. Kumar, M. S. Akhtar, and T. Chakraborty, “Multi-
modal sarcasm detection and humor classification in code-mixed
conversations,” IEEE Trans. Affective Comput., vol. 14, no. 2, pp.
1363–1375, 2023.
[14] K. A. Neuendorf, The Content Analysis Guidebook, 2nd ed.
SAGE Publications, Inc, 2017.
[15] G. Bertasius, H. Wang, and L. Torresani, “Is space-time attention
all you need for video understanding?” in Proc. Int. Conf. Mach.
Learn., July 2021.
[16] E. T. Hall, Beyond Culture, 1976, garden City, New York: Anchor
Press/Doubleday.
[17] D. Muecke, “Irony markers,” Poetics, vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 363–375,
1978.
[18] S. Attardo, J. Eisterhold, J. Hay, and I. Poggi, “Multimodal mark-
ers of irony and sarcasm,” Humor - Int. J. Humor Res., vol. 16,
no. 2, pp. 243–260, Jan. 2003.
[19] S. Tabacaru and M. Lemmens, “Raised eyebrows as gestural trig-
gers in humour: the case of sarcasm and hyper-understanding,”
Eur. J. Humor Res., vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 11–31, 2014.
[20] A. Li, Q. Fang, and J. Dang, “Emotional intonation in a tone lan-
guage: Experimental evidence from chinese,” in Proc. 17th Int.
Congr. Phonetic Sci. (ICPhS), Hong Kong, China, Aug. 2011, pp.
1198–1201.
[21] E. Camp, “Sarcasm, pretense, and the semantics/pragmatics dis-
tinction,” Noûs, vol. 46, no. 4, pp. 587–634, 2012.
[22] H. S. Cheang and M. D. Pell, “The sound of sarcasm,” Speech
Commun., vol. 50, no. 5, pp. 366–381, May 2008.
3972

