warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Leveraging AM and FM Rhythm Spectrograms for Dementia Classification
and Assessment
Parismita Gogoi1,2, Vishwanath Pratap Singh3, Seema Khadirnaikar4, Soma Siddhartha5, Sishir
Kalita6, Jagabandhu Mishra3, Md Sahidullah7, Priyankoo Sarmah1, S. R. M. Prasanna8
1IIT Guwahati, India; 2DUIET, Dibrugarh University, India; 3University of Eastern Finland, Finland;
4Independent Researcher, India; 5Saryps Labs, India; 6Armsoftech.air, India; 7TCG CREST, India;
8IIIT Dharwad, India
parismitagogoi@iitg.ac.in, jagabandhu.mishra@uef.fi
Abstract
This study explores the potential of Rhythm Formant Analy-
sis (RFA) to capture long-term temporal modulations in de-
mentia speech. Specifically, we introduce RFA-derived rhythm
spectrograms as novel features for dementia classification and
regression tasks. We propose two methodologies: (1) hand-
crafted features derived from rhythm spectrograms, and (2) a
data-driven fusion approach, integrating proposed RFA-derived
rhythm spectrograms with vision transformer (ViT) for acous-
tic representations along with BERT-based linguistic embed-
dings. We compare these with existing features. Notably, our
handcrafted features outperform eGeMAPs with a relative im-
provement of 14.2% in classification accuracy and comparable
performance in the regression task. The fusion approach also
shows improvement, with RFA spectrograms surpassing Mel
spectrograms in classification by around a relative improvement
of 13.1% and a comparable regression score with the baselines.
All codes are available in GitHub repo1.
Index Terms: Alzheimer’s dementia, Dementia, Rhythm for-
mant, Speech pathology
1. Introduction
Dementia describes a cluster of neurodegenerative condi-
tions characterized by progressive cognitive decline, with
Alzheimer’s disease (AD) being the most prevalent cause [1].
While memory loss is often considered the primary clinical hall-
mark, speech, and language impairments emerge early and can
manifest as hesitations, disrupted rhythm, word-finding diffi-
culties, and prosodic changes [2]. These early linguistic and
paralinguistic markers have motivated various speech-based
approaches for dementia assessment, offering a non-invasive,
cost-effective alternative to traditional neuroimaging and clini-
cal testing [3, 4].
Speech researchers have been investigating spoken lan-
guage, both acoustically and linguistically, as key evidence for
detecting and analyzing dementia [5].
Handcrafted linguis-
tic features such as part-of-speech patterns, type-token ratio,
hesitation-related features, vocabulary variation [5], and syn-
tactic complexity [6] have been widely explored. Additionally,
data-driven features derived from models such as, BERT [7]
and multilayer bidirectional transformer encoders [8] are also
used for dementia assessment. Similarly, acoustic features in-
cluding speech rate [9], fundamental frequency [5], rhythm,
Mel-frequency cepstral co-coefficients (MFCC), and extended
Geneva Minimalistic Acoustic Parameter Set (eGeMAPs) [10]
have been employed. More recently, speech representations ex-
tracted from foundation models, e.g., Wav2Vec2.0 and vision
1https://github.com/seemark11/DhiNirnayaAMFM
transformers (ViT) [11] have gained attention for dementia de-
tection. Furthermore, studies suggest that linguistic and acous-
tic features offer complementary evidence for dementia assess-
ment [11].
Rhythmic analysis of continuous speech—that is, examin-
ing how syllables and words are temporally distributed—has
shown promise for dementia detection [12]. Prior studies report
that individuals with dementia often exhibit longer pauses, re-
duced articulation rates, decreased intensity variability, and al-
tered rhythmic structures [12, 13, 14, 5]. Consequently, acous-
tic features such as articulation rate, word rate, syllable rate, and
pause rate have been widely investigated as markers of cogni-
tive deterioration [5].
In this study, we build upon these fundamental findings
by utilizing rhythm formant analysis (RFA) [15] to capture
long-term temporal modulations embedded in the speech signal.
The RFA focuses on the low-frequency (LF) components (be-
low 10 Hz) of both amplitude modulation (AM) and frequency
modulation (FM) envelopes, thereby revealing prosodic and ar-
ticulatory variations that evolve over time [15, 16, 17]. Un-
like conventional temporal rhythm analysis—which depends on
syllable- or word-level annotations (often requiring manual ef-
fort or forced alignment)—RFA is entirely annotation-free [15].
This is especially beneficial in pathological speech processing,
where accurate manual annotation is challenging and demands
specialized linguistic expertise. RFA characterizes rhythm by
detecting spectral peaks, known as rhythm formants, from the
LF spectrum, rather than relying solely on the duration of in-
dividual speech units [15, 18]. Furthermore, rhythm spectro-
gram has been introduced in RFA to analyze long-term rhyth-
mic patterns by leveraging the temporal details in the AM and
FM envelopes of speech utterances [15, 19]. This modulation-
theoretic approach provides an inductive method to capture the
evolving nature of rhythm. Moreover, RFA provide a dynamic
visualization of these long-term rhythmic patterns and capture
information that correlates with traditional measures such as
syllable and word rates [18, 15]. However, the effectiveness
of RFA in detecting or assessing disordered speech, such as that
of individuals with dementia, remains largely unknown, with no
prior attempts reported in the literature.
Driven by the significance of RFA in analyzing long-term
rhythm, we hypothesize that RFA-derived spectrograms can
capture rhythmic deviations of speech in individuals with de-
mentia. Moreover, it is observed that the audio from the elicita-
tion tasks, such as the Cookie Theft Picture Description task,
as of several seconds duration.
The long duration sponta-
neous speech file contains the changes in rhythm/prosody of the
speaker over the time and it’s the idea for RFA-based frequency
domain rhythm analysis. This work presents two methodol-
ogy for detecting and assessing dementia based on the char-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
539
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2097

Speech Signal
Normalization
Abs. Hilbert Transform(AM Envelope)
Smoothing
Windowing and FFT
AM rhythm spectrogram(0–10 Hz)
F0 Extraction(FM Envelope)
Smoothing
Windowing and FFT
FM rhythm spectrogram(0–10 Hz)
Figure 1: Block diagram of the AM (blue) and FM (green) rhythm spectrogram computation pipelines.
Figure 2: Illustration of AM and FM rhythm spectrograms of
speech utterance from healthy control (HC) and dementia.
acterization of AM and FM rhythm spectrograms. In the first
approach, we compute the variance of rhythm formants over
time from the rhythm spectrograms and explore the 2D dis-
crete cosine transform-based joint spectro-temporal represen-
tation of rhythm spectrograms. These handcrafted features are
then fed into a machine learning classifier to detect dementia
and predict the corresponding Mini-Mental Status Examination
(MMSE) score of the speaker. In the second approach, we in-
vestigate a vision transformer (ViT)-based data-driven acoustic
representation of rhythm spectrograms and integrate it with a
BERT-based linguistic representation to enhance dementia de-
tection and MMSE score estimation.
2. Rhythm spectrogram computation
We use the RFA method reported in [15] to compute the AM and
FM rhythm spectrograms. The overall block diagram illustrat-
ing the computation process is shown in Figure 1 and described
as follows.
Computation of AM rhythm spectrogram. The speech
signal is first normalized using its maximum absolute value. An
absolute Hilbert transform is applied to obtain the AM enve-
lope. The resulting AM envelope is smoothed to reduce rapid
fluctuations. A 5 s window with overlapping steps is used to ex-
tract a fixed set of 100 segments from the AM envelope, ensur-
ing consistent temporal segmentation regardless of variations
in utterance duration. Each segment is transformed via FFT to
capture low-frequency components of the envelope. The short-
term FFT magnitude spectra for each 5 s window are stacked in
time order to form a time-frequency representation (i.e., the AM
rhythm spectrogram). Only frequencies in the 0–10 Hz range
are retained, excluding the DC component (0 Hz), and the spec-
tral amplitudes are normalized.
Computation of FM rhythm spectrograms. The funda-
mental frequency (F0) contour of the speech signal is computed
using the RAPT pitch-tracking algorithm [20] (via the pysptk
[21] Python package).
The F0 contour is smoothed to pro-
duce the FM envelope. Voiceless segments and pauses appear
as breaks in the contour but are preserved as valid components
for subsequent spectral analysis. As with the AM envelope, a
5 s window with overlapping steps is used to extract a fixed set
of 100 segments from the AM envelope. The resulting spectra
from each segment are concatenated over time to yield the FM
rhythm spectrogram within the 0–10 Hz range. The DC compo-
nent is discarded, and amplitudes are normalized.
Figure 2 illustrates the AM and FM rhythm spectrograms
for speech utterances from healthy controls (HC) and individ-
uals with dementia. The rhythmic patterns differ clearly be-
tween the two groups. These differences suggest that analyzing
rhythm spectrograms may provide valuable cues for detecting
dementia.
3. Proposed approach for dementia
detection and assessment
We employ AM and FM rhythm spectrograms for dementia
detection and assessment using two approaches: (1) extract-
ing handcrafted features for classification and regression with
machine learning models, and (2) leveraging a data-driven ap-
proach with the ViT-BERT acoustic-linguistic end-to-end (E2E)
fusion model [11]. The embeddings extracted from ViT-BERT
are further used for regression with machine learning models.
For classification, we use a support vector machine (SVM) clas-
sifier, while regression is performed using SVM and decision
tree (DT) regression.
These methods are selected based on
prior studies demonstrating the superior performance of SVM
for classification [22] and both SVM and DT for regression [22]
in dementia detection and assessment.
3.1. Handcrafted characterization of rhythm spectrograms
for classification and regression
In this work, we extract the N rhythm formants from each LF
spectrum slice of the spectrogram using the peak-picking al-
gorithm described in [23].
These rhythm formants are then
tracked over time, producing trajectories that capture changes in
rhythm. The variance of these rhythm formant trajectories pro-
vides an interpretable measure of rhythmic variation. Therefore,
for each utterance, there are 2N variance-based rhythm values
(N for AM-based spectrogram and N for FM-based spectro-
gram).
Along with this, we also compute the two-dimensional dis-
crete cosine transform (2D-DCT) [24, 25, 26, 19] of the AM
and FM rhythm spectrograms to capture spectro-temporal vari-
ations directly from their time-frequency representations. After
computing 2D-DCT, we consider only the lower-order coeffi-
cients by selecting the first C vertical and horizontal DCT coef-
ficients, forming a C ×C matrix. Flattening this matrix yields a
C2-dimensional feature vector. Considering both AM and FM
rhythm spectrograms, we obtain a total of 2×C2 DCT features.
By combining both variance and 2D-DCT-based features,
540

Wav2Vec2.0
BERT
Acoustic Embedding
Linguistic Embedding
Concatenated
  FC Layer 
Class Prob
Non-
trainable
Trainable
 Spectrograms
ViT
Processing
1x768
1x768
1x1536
1x2
Figure 3: End-to-end pipeline for dementia detection using ViT-
BERT fusion system.
each utterance is represented by a 2N + 2 × C2-dimensional
feature vector, which is subsequently used for classification and
regression with machine learning models.
3.2. Data-driven characterization of rhythm spectrogram
using ViT-BERT for classification
The ViT-BERT fusion model, trained using both acoustic and
linguistic evidence, has recently been used in [11] for dementia
classification, demonstrating superior performance compared
to using only acoustic or linguistic evidence. Inspired by this
study, we replace the mel-spectrogram and its ∆, ∆∆with AM
and FM rhythm spectrograms and their ∆, ∆∆to highlight the
relevance of rhythm-based features. Furthermore, instead of re-
lying on ground truth transcripts, we use transcripts generated
by automatic speech recognition (ASR) to extract linguistic in-
formation. This modification accounts for practical scenarios
where obtaining manual transcriptions during testing is chal-
lenging [27].
The block diagram of the ViT-BERT system is depicted
in Figure 3.
Given a speech utterance, the AM and FM
rhythm spectrograms are computed on the acoustic-feature-
related branch, while the linguistic-feature-related branch uti-
lizes the widely used self-supervised Wav2Vec2.0 ASR to tran-
scribe the audio [28]. Wav2Vec2.0 is a transformer-based model
trained on large-scale speech data in a self-supervised manner
for robust transcription. The AM and FM spectrograms, along
with their ∆and ∆∆spectrograms, are each provided as three
input channels to ViT. ViT excels at capturing spatial and tem-
poral dependencies in image-like data, making it particularly
suited for processing spectrogram representations of speech.
Similarly, the transcripts generated by ASR serve as input to
BERT, a transformer-based language model that captures con-
textual relationships within text, enabling a richer understand-
ing of linguistic structure and meaning.
We employ pre-trained, open-source ViT 2, Wav2Vec2.0 3,
and BERT 4 models as non-trainable components in our archi-
tecture. The outputs of ViT and BERT (each 768 dimensions)
are concatenated and fed into a trainable fully connected layer
with two neurons, facilitating joint learning from acoustic and
linguistic modalities. The total number of trainable parameters
in our architecture is 3074.
4. Experimental setup and results
4.1. Dataset description
We used Alzheimer’s Dementia Recognition through Sponta-
neous Speech Only (ADReSSo) [22] in this study. This dataset
was originally introduced as part of the ADReSSo Challenge
2021 [22], aiming to detect dementia and assess cognitive de-
cline using speech alone.
It consists of audio recordings of
participants, both with and without Alzheimer’s dementia, de-
scribing the “Cookie Theft” scene from the Boston Diagnostic
Aphasia Examination, as well as recordings from a verbal flu-
ency task. The dataset was carefully balanced by age and gender
to minimize confounding variables. The dataset contains a total
of 237 audio recordings, with 166 used for training and 71 for
testing. In addition to speech utterances, the dataset provides
transcriptions and timestamps of conversations between sub-
jects and interviewers. In our study, we use these timestamps
to isolate only the subject’s speech segments, concatenate them
for each utterance, and use the resulting utterance for further
processing.
4.2. Experimental setup
Apart from our proposed approaches,
we consider the
eGeMAPS [29] features to compare the performance of our
handcrafted acoustic features in dementia detection using an
SVM classifier. Since the ADReSSo dataset does not provide
a predefined development set, we perform all experiments us-
ing a 5 fold split of the ADReSSo training set into training
and development subsets, maintaining an 80 : 20 ratio. For
machine learning models used in classification and regression,
the optimized hyperparameters are determined through cross-
validation, and the training parameters are averaged across the
5 folds. The resulting averaged model is then used for inference.
Handcrafted characterization of rhythm spectrogram.
The rhythm variance feature is computed using N = 6 for-
mants, while the 2D-DCT coefficients are extracted with C
varying from 2 to 4 for classification and regression. These
features are then used with an SVM classifier for classification
and with SVR and DT for regression.
ViT-BERT system using rhythm spectrogram. Follow-
ing the system proposed in [11], we train three ViT-BERT mod-
els by varying the input acoustic features. The first system,
which uses a Mel-spectrogram as reported in [11], serves as
the baseline for our study. The other two systems use the AM
rhythm spectrogram and FM rhythm spectrogram, respectively.
The models are trained using cross-entropy loss with a 5 fold
cross-validation. The trained parameters are averaged, and used
for inference. Furthermore, to ensure reliability, training is re-
peated with three fixed random seeds, and we report the mean
2https://huggingface.co/timm/vit_base_
patch16_224.augreg_in21k
3https://huggingface.co/facebook/
wav2vec2-large-960h
4https://huggingface.co/google-bert/
bert-base-uncased
541

Table 1: Classification results in terms of accuracy (%) and F1-
score (%) for the SVM-based model.
Variance
2D-DCT
Combined
Accuracy
62.86
65.71
65.71
F1-score
68.29
64.71
69.23
Table 2: Results ViT-BERT, with Mel, and AM and FM rhythm
spectrogram and their ∆and ∆∆inputs to ViT, C1, C2, C3
indicate 3 channels of ViT input. Results are in the form of
mean standard deviation over 3 different runs.
Input Features to ViT
Results
C1
C2
C3
Accuracy
F1
Baseline [11]
Mel
∆
∆∆
73.33 ± 0.67
72.98 ± 0.006
Proposed
FM
∆
∆∆
71.43 ± 0.10
71.10 ± 0.038
AM
∆
∆∆
74.29 ± 0.23
74.06 ± 0.002
and standard deviation of the results.
The trained model is
used directly for classification, whereas the concatenated em-
beddings extracted from the trained model are used to train the
DT and SVR regression models for the regression task to pre-
dict the MMSE score.
4.3. Results and discussion
4.3.1. Classification systems
We evaluated the classification system using both handcrafted
features with the SVM and ViT-BERT E2E model. The ob-
tained performances are discussed as follows.
Handcrafted features.
Using handcrafted features, we
evaluate our trained SVM model, and the test set results are
presented in Table 1. We consider three training and evaluation
conditions: (1) using only the variance of rhythm formants, (2)
using only 2D-DCT coefficients, and (3) using a combination
of both. The variance-based feature alone achieves an accu-
racy of 62.86% and an F1-score of 68.29%. By varying the
number of 2D-DCT coefficients (C) from 2 to 4 and evaluat-
ing performance, we observe that C = 3 yields the best results,
with an accuracy of 65.71% and an F1-score of 64.71%. The
combined feature set achieves the same accuracy (65.71%) as
the 2D-DCT features but improves the F1-score to 69.23%. In-
terestingly, while 2D-DCT features yield better accuracy, the
variance-based features provide a higher F1-score. The com-
bined system maintains the accuracy of 2D-DCT while further
improving the F1-score.
ViT-BERT System. We evaluated three systems (1) Mel
spectrogram, (2) AM, and (3) FM rhythm spectrogram along
with their ∆and ∆∆as acoustic representation fed into the
three channels of the ViT model. Our baseline—using Mel,
Delta Mel, and double Delta Mel features—achieved a mean ac-
curacy of 73.33% and an F1-score of 72.98% over three runs,
as reported in [11]. In comparison, incorporating FM, Delta
FM, and double Delta FM features yielded 71.43% accuracy
and a mean F1-score of 71.10%. Notably, the best performance
was obtained when using AM, Delta AM, and double Delta AM
features, which achieved 74.29% accuracy and an F1-score of
74.06%. In all experiments, the input to BERT consisted of
Wav2Vec2.0-based ASR transcriptions. Overall, the proposed
AM features provide a relative 13.09% improvement in accu-
racy over the baseline.
Finally, the performance comparison of both handcrafted
and data-driven characterizations of rhythm spectrograms
Table 3: Comparison of classification results obtained from the
baseline and proposed systems.
Handcrafted features
Data-driven features
Variance+2D-DCT
eGeMAPS [22]
AM spectrogram
Mel spectrogram
Accuracy (%)
65.71
64.79
74.29
73.33
F1-score (%)
69.23
-
74.06
72.98
Table 4: Regression results for MMSE estimation in terms of
root mean squared error (RMSE) and Pearson correlation coef-
ficient (ρ), SVR: support vector regression, DT: decision tree.
Model
Variance
2D-DCT
Combined
Embeddings
SVR
6.50 (0.23)
6.39 (0.29)
6.26 (0.37)
6.00 (0.42)
DT
7.34 (0.25)
8.84 (0.01)
7.64 (0.32)
6.57 (0.27)
against their respective baselines—88-dimensional eGeMAPS
for handcrafted features and Mel-spectrogram-based ViT-BERT
for data-driven features—is presented in Table 3.
The re-
sults demonstrate that rhythm spectrograms consistently outper-
form their respective baselines in both approaches, highlight-
ing their effectiveness in capturing dementia-related speech pat-
terns. These findings underscore the potential of rhythm spec-
trograms in encapsulating valuable evidence for dementia de-
tection.
4.3.2. Regression systems
Table 4 reports root mean squared error (RMSE) and Pearson
correlation coefficient (ρ) for MMSE estimation using regres-
sion models trained on handcrafted features (variance and 2D-
DCT) and ViT-BERT-based embeddings.
Handcrafted features. Among the handcrafted features,
SVR yields the lowest RMSE of 6.39 when the lower-order co-
efficient matrix of the 2D-DCT coefficient C is set to 2. Consis-
tent with the classification results, the 2D-DCT feature outper-
forms the variance-based features in the regression task. Fur-
thermore, combining the variance and 2D-DCT features im-
proves performance compared to using either feature individ-
ually (RMSE: 6.26, ρ: 0.37). However, the eGeMAPS features
achieve a lower RMSE of 6.09, as reported in [22].
ViT-BERT embeddings. For the ViT-BERT embeddings,
we consider only those derived from the AM rhythm spectro-
gram, as it demonstrated superior performance in the classi-
fication task.
As shown in Table 4, SVR outperforms DT,
achieving an RMSE of 6.00 with ρ = 0.42, compared to the
DT model’s RMSE of 6.57 with ρ = 0.27. These results sug-
gest that embedding-based features perform comparably to, or
slightly better than, eGeMAPS features for MMSE score esti-
mation.
5. Conclusions
In this study, we explored the use of rhythm spectrograms
through both handcrafted and data-driven representations for
dementia detection. Experimental results demonstrate that the
proposed characterization of rhythm spectrograms achieves su-
perior performance in dementia classification and comparable
results in MMSE score prediction. In the future, we plan to in-
tegrate these features with existing approaches to evaluate their
combined effectiveness in distinguishing between dementia and
non-dementia cases. Additionally, we aim to benchmark the
proposed features across multiple datasets to further validate
their robustness and generalizability.
542

6. Acknowledgements
The authors wish to acknowledge CSC – IT Center for Science,
Finland, for computational resources.
7. References
[1] W. H. Organization, “Dementia,” WHO Fact Sheets, 2023.
[Online]. Available: https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/
detail/dementia
[2] B. Klimova and K. Kuca, “Speech and language impairments in
dementia,” Journal of Applied Biomedicine, vol. 14, no. 2, pp.
97–103, 2016.
[3] S. Luz, F. Haider, S. de la Fuente Garcia, D. Fromm, and
B. MacWhinney, “Alzheimer’s dementia recognition through
spontaneous speech,” Frontiers in Computer Science, vol. 3, p.
780169, 2021.
[4] A. Satt, A. Sorin, O. Toledo-Ronen, O. Barkan, I. Kompatsiaris,
A. Kokonozi, and M. Tsolaki, “Evaluation of speech-based pro-
tocol for detection of early-stage dementia.” in Interspeech, 2013,
pp. 1692–1696.
[5] S. Cho, K. A. Q. Cousins, S. Shellikeri, S. Ash, D. J. Irwin, M. Y.
Liberman, M. Grossman, and N. Nevler, “Lexical and acoustic
speech features relating to alzheimer disease pathology,” Neurol-
ogy, vol. 99, no. 4, pp. e313–e322, 2022.
[6] C. K. Tomoeda, K. A. Bayles, D. R. Boone, A. W. Kaszniak, and
T. J. Slauson, “Speech rate and syntactic complexity effects on the
auditory comprehension of alzheimer patients,” Journal of Com-
munication Disorders, vol. 23, no. 2, pp. 151–161, 1990.
[7] Y. Pan, B. Mirheidari, J. M. Harris, J. C. Thompson, M. Jones,
J. S. Snowden, D. Blackburn, and H. Christensen, “Using the
outputs of different automatic speech recognition paradigms
for acoustic-and BERT-based Alzheimer’s dementia detection
through spontaneous speech.” in Interspeech, 2021, pp. 3810–
3814.
[8] Y. Pan, B. Mirheidari, D. Blackburn, and H. Christensen, “A two-
step attention-based feature combination cross-attention system
for speech-based dementia detection,” IEEE Transactions on Au-
dio, Speech and Language Processing, 2025.
[9] S. Saeedi, S. Hetjens, M. Grimm, and B. B. v. Latoszek, “Acoustic
speech analysis in alzheimer’s disease: A systematic review and
meta-analysis,” The Journal of Prevention of Alzheimer’s Disease,
vol. 11, no. 6, pp. 1789–1797, 2024.
[10] J. Chen, J. Ye, F. Tang, and J. Zhou, “Automatic detection of
Alzheimer’s disease using spontaneous speech only,” in Proc. In-
terspeech, 2021, p. 3830.
[11] L. Ilias, D. Askounis, and J. Psarras, “Detecting dementia from
speech and transcripts using transformers,” Computer Speech &
Language, vol. 79, p. 101485, 2023.
[12] C. Oh, R. J. Morris, and X. Wang, “A systematic review of ex-
pressive and receptive prosody in people with dementia,” Journal
of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research, vol. 64, no. 10, pp.
3803–3825, 2021.
[13] ——, “Prosody analysis as a tool for differential diagnosis of
cognitive impairment,” in Proceedings of Meetings on Acoustics,
vol. 50, no. 1.
AIP Publishing, 2022.
[14] N. Nevler, S. Ash, C. Jester, D. J. Irwin, M. Liberman, and
M. Grossman, “Automatic measurement of prosody in behavioral
variant ftd,” Neurology, vol. 89, no. 7, pp. 650–656, 2017.
[15] D. Gibbon, “The rhythms of rhythm,” Journal of the International
Phonetic Association, p. 1–33, 2021.
[16] ——, “The Future of Prosody: It’s about Time,” in Proc. Speech
Prosody 2018, 2018, pp. 1–9.
[17] D. Gibbon and P. Li, “Quantifying and correlating rhythm for-
mants in speech,” in Proc. Linguistic Patterns in Spontaneous
Speech (LPSS).
Taipei, Academia Sinica, 2019.
[18] P. Gogoi, P. Sarmah, and S. R. M. Prasanna, “Cross-linguistic
rhythm analysis of Mising and Assamese,” ACM Trans. Asian
Low-Resour. Lang. Inf. Process., vol. 23, no. 10, pp. 1–18, Oct.
2024. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3694785
[19] ——, “Analyzing long-term rhythm variations in mising and
assamese using frequency domain correlates,” International
Journal of Asian Language Processing, no. just accepted, 2025.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1142/S2717554525500018
[20] D. Talkin and W. B. Kleijn, “A robust algorithm for pitch tracking
(rapt),” Speech coding and synthesis, vol. 495, p. 518, 1995.
[21] R. Yamamoto, J. Felipe, and M. Blaauw, “r9y9/pysptk: 0.1. 14,”
URL: https://github. com/r9y9/pysptk, 2019.
[22] S. Luz, F. Haider, S. de la Fuente, D. Fromm, and B. MacWhin-
ney, “Detecting cognitive decline using speech only:
The
ADReSSo Challenge,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2021.
[23] P. Virtanen, R. Gommers, E. Oliphant, Travis et al., “SciPy 1.0:
Fundamental Algorithms for Scientific Computing in Python,”
Nature Methods, vol. 17, pp. 261–272, 2020.
[24] K. R. Rao and P. Yip, Discrete Cosine Transform: Algorithms,
Advantages, Applications.
Academic Press, 1990.
[25] S. Str¨ombergsson, G. Salvi, and D. House, “Acoustic and percep-
tual evaluation of category goodness of /t/ and /k/ in typical and
misarticulated children’s speech,” The Journal of the Acoustical
Society of America, vol. 137, no. 6, pp. 3422–3435, 2015.
[26] S. Kalita, S. Mahadeva Prasanna, and S. Dandapat, “Intelligibility
assessment of cleft lip and palate speech using Gaussian posteri-
ograms based on joint spectro-temporal features,” The Journal of
the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 144, no. 4, pp. 2413–2423,
2018.
[27] T. Soroski et al., “Evaluating web-based automatic transcription
for Alzheimer speech data: Transcript comparison and machine
learning analysis,” JMIR Aging, vol. 5, 2022.
[28] A. Baevski, Y. Zhou, A. Mohamed, and M. Auli, “wav2vec 2.0:
A framework for self-supervised learning of speech representa-
tions,” in Advances in neural information processing systems,
2020.
[29] F. Eyben et al., “The Geneva minimalistic acoustic parameter set
(GeMAPS) for voice research and affective computing,” IEEE
Transactions on Affective Computing, vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 190–202,
2015.
543

