Towards Inclusive and Fair ASR: Insights from the SAPC Challenge for
Optimizing Disordered Speech Recognition
Nada Gohider, Otman Basir
1Electrical & Computer Engineering Department, University of Waterloo, Canada
ngohider@uwaterloo.ca, otman.basir@uwaterloo.ca
Abstract
ASR has advanced significantly, yet remains limited for im-
paired speakers due to data scarcity. In response to this gap, the
Speech Accessibility Project (SAP) represents a significant ini-
tiative in data collection on impaired speech. This paper reports
our participation in the SAPC challenge, where we leveraged
SAP data to improve ASR performance for disordered speech.
Our system ranked fourth in terms of Word Error Rate, record-
ing values of 10.06% and 11.8% WER for Test1 and Test2
subsets, respectively, on the challenge leaderboard. In partic-
ular, our research examines the power of SOTA ASR models
to capture contextual information in the presence of disordered
speech disfluencies.
We focused on two ASR architectures,
ContextNet and Parakeet, based on their documented ability
to efficiently and effectively handle contextual information for
typical speech, utilizing distinct mechanisms. Our experiments
demonstrated that Parakeet slightly outperformed ContextNet,
as evidenced by WER.
Index Terms: disordered speech recognition, dysarthric speech
recognition, inclusive ASR, dysarthria, SAP dataset, SAPC
challenge
1. Introduction
The performance of current ASR systems has been boosted by
the dominance of deep learning (DL) algorithms, which are
highly dependent on the size of the training data [1][2]. Thus,
a key factor in ASR advancements is the amount and quality
of the data used to train the underlying machine learning (ML)
models of these ASR systems. LibriSpeech [3], for instance, is
a benchmark that has been extensively used to train and eval-
uate ASR models. Its large size of 1000 hours sampled from
high-quality speech, in addition to its diversity and being open
source, are key factors behind its popularity in ASR research
[3]. However, these datasets are generally sampled from stan-
dard speech, relying falsely on the assumption of independent
and identically distributed (i.i.d) as an inductive bias for the
driving ML models. Consequently, these ASR models fall short
when exposed to environments or settings that differ from those
encountered during the training phase, causing a major setback
in these systems[4][2][5]. In this context, disordered speech is
a case of failure of current ASR systems, where performance
can significantly deteriorate due to the distribution mismatch
between typical and impaired speech.
Although speech technology should be essentially inclusive
and accessible for all individuals, it can be even more critical
for people with speech disorders. Speech impairments, such
as dysarthria, constitute a significant barrier that can negatively
impact impaired speakers in different aspects of life [6]. Fur-
thermore, the failure of current ASR models to accommodate
impaired speakers can hinder their digital accessibility, exclud-
ing them from the benefits of ASR technology. Therefore, these
challenges motivated ASR researchers to explore various ap-
proaches in search of solutions to facilitate digital accessibility
of ASR applications for individuals with speech disabilities. In
this context, domain adaptation and personalized ASR models
have been widely studied to optimize the task of automatic dis-
ordered speech recognition (ADSR). However, the lack of data
on impaired speech limits the effectiveness of these models,
leading to suboptimal results. A key issue that limits the de-
velopment of ASR models for impaired speech is data scarcity
[2][5]. In addition to the limited size of the existing datasets of
pathological speech, these datasets lack the important character-
istic of data diversity that is key for ML model generalization.
In particular, most of the available data, such as UASpeech [7],
is sampled from a small number of speakers who represent only
a few cases of speech impairments, ignoring a wide spectrum of
impairments that negatively impact speech representation when
learning ASR models.
Responding to these needs, researchers at the University of
Illinois Urbana-Champaign have initiated a great collaborative
work, the Speech Accessibility Project (SAP)[8], which aims
to address the problem of data shortage of impaired speech and
ultimately bridge the performance gap of ASR systems and en-
able them to reach people with speech impairments. In fact,
SAP data provides a level of granularity and diversity that was
previously unavailable in the context of the disordered speech
recognition task. Its comprehensive scope and enriched fea-
tures enable more precise analyses, facilitating deeper insights
into patterns and phenomena that were difficult to capture with
earlier datasets. In this context, Speech Accessibility Project
Challenge (SAPC) is a public challenge that was recently or-
ganized by the SAP team, aiming to facilitate access to the SAP
data by ASR researchers and practitioners and utilize it to ad-
vance the research of ASR targeting disordered speech.
This paper reports our participation in the SAPC challenge,
with the aim of contributing to the advancement of ASR re-
search and making it accessible to individuals with speech dis-
abilities. As SAP data offers a more representative and high-
resolution perspective of speech impairments in the context of
the ASR task, it encourages us to raise questions that were pre-
viously constrained by data limitations. From this perspective,
this paper seeks to utilize the continuity in the SAP data and
study the power of the SOTA ASR model to capture contextual
information in disordered speech. We assume that the atypi-
cal patterns inherent in disordered speech can affect both local
and long-term dependencies (i.e., the local and global context).
Addressing these challenges necessitates architectures that can
flexibly capture both short-term phonetic cues and long-term
dependencies without being constrained by predefined feature
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
3274
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2431

extraction mechanisms. Moreover, we believe that the bene-
fits of ASR systems for impaired speakers can extend to a wide
range of applications, including daily assistance, medical mon-
itoring, and the early diagnosis of speech impairments. In light
of this, the ability to accurately capture disfluencies in disor-
dered speech—such as prolonged phonemes, irregular speech
patterns, and filler words—is particularly crucial. This capa-
bility is essential for applications where ASR technology is em-
ployed for the early assessment of speech impairments, facilitat-
ing timely intervention and improved clinical outcomes. There-
fore, our research examines the power of some SOTA ASR
models to capture contextual information in the presence of dis-
ordered speech disfluencies. We focus on two ASR architec-
tures, ContextNet [9] and FastConformer (Parakeet) [10]. We
selected these architectures because of their documented ability
to efficiently and effectively handle contextual information for
typical speech, utilizing distinct mechanisms [9][10][11].
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section
2 summarizes the research activity of related work in the litera-
ture on disordered speech recognition. Further, a brief summary
of the SAPC challenge is reported in Section 3. Moreover, Sec-
tion 4 and Section 5 give an overview of the ContextNet and
Parakeet models, respectively. After that, the data preprocess-
ing pipeline and the experimental setup are explained in Section
6, and results and discussion are given in Section 7. We, then,
conclude the work in Section 8.
2. Related work
ASR researchers have explored various approaches to bridge
the performance gap for impaired speech [2]. One line of re-
search has focused on personalized models, where speaker-
dependent systems are trained using data from specific target
speakers [1][12][13]. Other widely studied directions are trans-
fer learning and domain adaptation, which have been imple-
mented through a range of techniques to enhance model gen-
eralization [14][15][16] [1]. While these research efforts have
contributed to advancements in the field, their performance re-
mains suboptimal due to persistent limitations. One of the most
significant limitations is data scarcity, characterized by insuffi-
cient training samples and a lack of diversity. In light of this, a
large body of ADSR research was conducted on the UASpeech
dataset [7]; however, its constrained size and restricted range
of etiologies present significant challenges in developing robust
ASR models for disordered speech. The reliance on isolated
words has constrained the ability to examine key aspects of con-
textual features in speech. Therefore, this research aims to shed
some light on this gap by utilizing SAP data and some SOTA
ASR models to study the impact of capturing contextual fea-
tures in the scenario of disordered speech.
3. SAPC challenge
SAP [8] is an ongoing project that is actively collecting U.S.
English speech from impaired speakers.
To our knowledge,
SAPC1 is the first ASR challenge exclusively focused on disor-
dered speech. It is an initiative to facilitate the use of SAP data
by speech researchers and practitioners and ultimately enable
ASR systems for people with speech disabilities. In particular,
the SAP team [8] organized a challenge where registered teams
were tasked with training ASR models and supported with the
latest release of the SAP data (April 2024) along with a set
1https://eval.ai/web/challenges/challenge-page/2362/overview
of data preprocessing guidelines. The submitted models were
evaluated on two test subsets, Test1 and Test2, sampled from
a range of speech impairments, and were withheld from par-
ticipants. During the challenge, all participants were allowed
a limit of submissions that were evaluated on the Test1 subset
while the final evaluation was scored on the Test2 subset. For
each test, the final scores reflect the best match among two used
test transcripts: with- and without disfluencies. Examples of
these disfluencies are filler words, false starts, repetitions of full
words or phrases, and partial words. The results of both tests
are publicly shared on the challenge leaderboard. The SAPC
submissions were scored using two evaluation metrics: 1-word
error rate (WER) and 2-semantic score (SemScore). WER mea-
sure [17] reflects the normalized edit distance between the pre-
diction and the reference, considering three types of errors: in-
sertions, deletions, and substitutions. On the other hand, Sem-
Score reflects the semantic similarity between the predicted
words and the ground truth on the semantic level. In particu-
lar, SemScore [18] is the weighted combination of BERTscore,
phonetic distance, and natural language inference probability.
4. ContextNet
ContextNet [9] is composed of a fully convolutional encoder,
which makes it parameter efficient, while it leverages an auto-
regressive decoder using a transducer/RNN module.
Con-
textNet uses depthwise separable convolution aiming to further
reduce the number of parameters, optimizing its efficiency. As
CNNs can effectively capture the local context with their filters,
they lack control over long-term dependencies. To overcome
this problem, ContextNet utilizes squeeze-and-excitation (SE)
modules to improve the representation power of the model and
capture the global context in speech signals [9]. Another key ad-
vantage that features ContextNet is the use of progressive down-
sampling that seeks to optimize the training speed and memory
without impacting the overall model performance.
An SE module seeks to learn a context-aware feature repre-
sentation that efficiently captures the global context of the input
speech signal [9]. This learned representation, then, supports
the CNN outputs, which are augmented with local dependen-
cies. As depicted in Figure 1, the SE module captures the long-
term dependencies through a two-step process, as follows:
Figure 1: Squeeze-and-Excitation Block in ContextNet Model
[9]
• Sequeeze: This step simply encodes the global context θ(x)
by aggregating a sequence of local feature vectors using
global average pooling, as depicted in Equation 1 [9].
θ(x) = Sigmoid(W2(Act(W1x + b1) + b2)
(1)
, where x =
1
T
P
t xt, and [W1, W2] and [b1, b2] are the
weight matrices and the bias vectors, respectively.
• Excite: Then, the excitation is realized by passing the global
context vector into a sequence of local feature vectors to ex-
3275

tract weighted features that reflect the importance of con-
textual information. i.e., the global channelwise weight is
broadcasted on a sequence of local feature vectors using the
element-wise multiplication, as described in Equation 2 [9].
SE(x) = θ(x) ◦x
(2)
5. Parakeet
Parakeet2 is a family of ASR models that share the FastCon-
former encoder [10], while they can have a CTC, transducer,
hybrid, or TDT decoder. FastConformer is an optimized variant
of the Conformer model [19]. The Conformer model integrates
the attention mechanism to complement the convolutional lay-
ers merits, leveraging the advantages of both worlds.
This,
therefore, helps the Conformer model capture the local context
through its kernels in the convolutional layers while leveraging
the attention modules to learn the long-term dependencies in the
speech signals [19]. FastConformer was introduced as an opti-
mized version of the Conformer model, reducing the computa-
tional cost while preserving the recognition capacity to achieve
SOTA performance. The key improvements in FastConformer
architecture were realized by adding 8x depthwise-separable
convolutional downsampling, modified convolution kernel size,
and an efficient subsampling module [10]. In addition, Fast-
Conformer can greatly handle long-form audio (up to 11 hours)
in a single pass without the need for any further segmentation
or post-processing steps, as shown in Figure 2[10].
Figure 2: FastConformer [11]
6. Expirements
6.1. Data
We used the April 2024 release of SAP data, shared by the SAP
team. Approximately a total of 415 hours of speech that was
uttered by 524 speakers contributed to the SAP dataset. The
diversity in SAP data is realized in different aspects where con-
tinuous speech was recorded using both spontaneous and read-
ing prompts. While participants in SAP data are dominantly
diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease, other disabilities are in-
volved, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), cerebral
palsy (CP), Down syndrome (DS), and stroke. For data prepro-
cessing, we followed a set of guidelines, advised by the SAPC
challenge organizers, such as resampling audio to 16 kHz and
basic text preprocessing (e.g., text normalization, including dig-
ital numbers, abbreviations, and special punctuations). Addi-
tionally, disfluencies resulting from speech impairments were
retained in their spoken form to preserve the natural character-
istics of the impaired speech. This process results in a total
2https://docs.nvidia.com/nemo-framework/user-
guide/24.09/nemotoolkit/asr/models.html
of processed data of approximately 334 hours, along with their
transcription. We split the data as follows: ∼290h train sub-
set, ∼35h dev subset, and ∼8.5h test subset. These data sub-
sets were uttered by non-overlapping speakers. Moreover, SAP
data is curated by the SAP team in such a way that it prioritizes
the participants’ privacy and confidentiality and does not reveal
any information about their identities. To prevent ambiguity, we
designate the latter test subset as test3 to clearly distinguish it
from Test1 and Test2, which were utilized by the SAPC chal-
lenge organizers for evaluating participants’ submissions.
6.2. Experimental setup
In addition to the results achieved in the SAPC Challenge
submission, this paper also presents the performance of our
trained models on the test3 subset, which we dedicate to our
analysis and not used during model training.
In these ex-
periments, we employed BERTScore as a semantic similar-
ity metric—alongside WER—to compare the utterance-level
predictions of the ContextNet and Parakeet-RNNT models.
BERTScore was chosen for its simplicity and interpretability
relative to the more complex SemScore metric.
This analy-
sis aims to provide a deeper understanding of data trends and
to inform the fine-tuning of the models’ hyperparameters. All
experiments were carried out using the NeMo NVIDIA toolkit
[20]. In terms of compute resources, all experiments were run
on ComputeCanada3 nodes, where we used one node of four
GPUs of NVIDIA V100.
In terms of model initialization, we followed a domain
adaptation framework where we started with publicly available
pre-trained models that were trained earlier on typical speech.
For ContextNet, we started with the NeMo pre-trained check-
point 4 stt en contextnet 1024, which consists of around
140M parameters that were trained earlier on NeMo ASRSet
with over 24,500 hours of English speech.
For the Para-
keet model, we started with the NeMo pre-trained checkpoint5
nvidia/parakeet−rnnt−0.6b of 600M parameters that were
trained earlier on NeMo 64K hours of English speech collected
in collaborative work between NVIDIA NeMo and Suno teams.
Instead of reinventing the wheel for the ADSR task, we intended
to leverage the knowledge embedded in those pre-trained mod-
els, as they have been trained on large-scale, diverse datasets
encompassing a wide range of linguistic and acoustic condi-
tions. These datasets include various English accents, multiple
domains, and diverse environmental noise conditions, thereby
enhancing the model’s robustness and generalization capabili-
ties.
For Parakeet models, we examined the performance with
both CTC and RNN/transducer decoders, using beam search
without external LM, focusing solely on core acoustic model-
ing. For all experiments, we used SentencePiece Unigram tok-
enizer we trained on SAP dataset. In particular, we explored the
impact of the vocabulary size relative to the model size, where
we trained two tokenizers of 256 and 1024 vocab spaces. In
terms of the optimizer, we used the AdamW optimizer, where
we varied the learning rate in the range [10−5, 3 ×10−5] and
weight decay of 0.01. While we compared the models of the
same training cycles/epochs, we set 10 consecutive epochs as
the limit to stop training if the model was not further improv-
ing.
3https://docs.alliancecan.ca/wiki/Technical documentation
4https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/teams/nemo/models/
stt en contextnet 1024
5https://huggingface.co/nvidia/parakeet-rnnt-0.6b
3276

7. Results and Discussion
According to the public leaderboard6 of the SAPC challenge,
our submission achieved the fourth-lowest Word Error Rate
(WER) on both challenge tests, recording values of 10.06% and
11.8% for Test1 and Test2, respectively. These results were
accomplished with fine-tuning the pretrained Parakeet-RNNT
model for 70 epochs, utilizing our trained tokenizer of 256 vo-
cab size, and 3 ×10−5 learning rate, and beam search decod-
ing. Table 1 summarizes our results on Test1 and Test2 subsets
in terms of WER and SemScore as reported in the challenge
submissions. The selection of hyperparameters was informed
by a series of experiments conducted on test3 subset, in which
we systematically varied several components, including the en-
coder architecture (Parakeet vs. ContextNet), loss function, and
learning rate.
Table 1: Our SAPC results of Parakeet model on Test1 and Test2
subsets
Test Subset
WER
SemScore
Test1
10.06%
86.34
Test2
11.8%
83.29
In terms of capturing disfluencies in disordered speech,
which is a key research question in this work, we have noticed
that Parakeet-RNNT outperforms ContextNet across all our ex-
periments. This advantage is particularly evident in long-form
audio scenarios, where Parakeet demonstrates superior robust-
ness in handling atypical speech patterns. While ContextNet is
comparatively less effective in capturing these disfluencies, its
BERTScore performance remains competitive with that of Para-
keet, suggesting strong capabilities in modelling global con-
text, as evidenced by the semantic similarity measure. Addi-
tionally, the performance gap between the two models narrows
when evaluated on clean speech or shorter utterances, where
both models achieve similar accuracy. Table 2 presents some
examples that compare the predictions of the ContextNet and
Parakeet-RNNT models on the utterance level in terms of WER
and BERTScore as a semantic similarity metric. More specifi-
cally, we have noticed that across all our experiments, disfluen-
cies commonly found in disordered speech, such as word and
phrase repetitions and filler words. Although the discrepancy
between the performance of the two models in terms of tran-
scription accuracy may not significantly impact the overall per-
formance in terms of the semantic meaning of the transcribed
text, capturing these disfluencies can play a vital role in some
applications, such as medical assessment scenarios.
Table 2:
Utterance-level comparison of ContextNet vs.
Parakeet-rnnt
Duration
Num
words
Ground truth
ContextNet-pred
Parakeet-rnnt-pred
ContextNet
WER|BertScore
Parakeet-rnnt
WER|BertScore
10.35
3
”PLEASE HANG UP”
”PLEASE HANG UP”
”PLEASE HANG UP”
0|1
0|1
10.2
7
”WHERE DID DID I PAR PAR
PARK”
”WHERE DID DID I PARK
PARK”
”WHERE DID DID I PAR PAR
PARK”
28.57|0.81
0|1
14.88
18
”SET
A
REMINDER
TO
TAKE POTASSIUM AT TWO
P M TO ELEVEN P M A M A
M”
”SET
A
REMINDER
TO
TAKE
POTASSIUM
FROM
TWO P M”
”SET
A
REMINDER
TO
TAKE
POTASSIUM
FROM
TWO P M TO ELEVEN P M
A M A M”
50|0.83
5.56|0.96
16.16
14
”IS
THERE
A
CHAN
CHANCE OF OF RAI RAIN
ON THE TWENTI ETH ETH”
”IS
THERE
A
CHANCE
OF RAIN RAIN ON THE
TWINTH”
”IS
THERE
A
CHAN
CHANCE
OF
OF
RAIN
ON THE TWENTIETH”
42.86|0.72
28.57|0.75
21.99
18
”RECORD PLEASE RECORD
PLEASE
RECORD
THE
TEMPERATURE
IN
THE
LIVING
ROOM
WHAT’S
THE
TEMPERATURE
IN
THE LIVING ROOM”
”RECORD
PLEASE
RE
WHAT THE TEMPERATURE
IN
THE
LIVING
ROOM
WHAT’S
THE
TEMPER-
ATURE
IN
THE
LIVING
ROOM”
”RECORD PLEASE RECORD
PLEASE
RECORD
THE
TEMPERATURE
IN
THE
LIVING
ROOM
WHAT’S
THE
TEMPERATURE
IN
THE LIVING ROOM”
16.67|0.89
0|1
38.73
10
”STOP
RECORDING
ADD
THIS SHER ADD THIS MU-
SIC TO FAVORITES”
”STOP
RECORDING
ADD
THIS
MUSIC
TO
FA-
VORITES”
”STOP
RECORDING
ADD
THIS FAVORITES ADD THIS
MUSIC TO FAVORITES”
30|0.89
10|0.89
6https://eval.ai/web/challenges/challenge-
page/2362/leaderboard/5859
Generally, Parakeet-RNNT achieved slightly better results
than ContextNet reporting 4.9% and 6.67% respectively, after
fine-tuning for 70 epochs on the test subset. More specifically,
we found that the transducer-based variant (Parakeet-RNNT)
consistently outperformed Parakeet-CTC, as depicted in Table3.
This can be attributed to the RNN-T architecture’s ability to in-
corporate language modeling, which enhances contextual un-
derstanding. This advantage was also evident during training,
where Parakeet-RNNT exhibited faster convergence compared
to the CTC-based variant. Additionally, we observed that, gen-
erally, small learning rates contribute to more stable training,
albeit at the cost of slower convergence. This stability is partic-
ularly beneficial for preserving the knowledge transferred from
the pre-trained checkpoints while simultaneously adapting to
the patterns of disordered speech. Regarding the vocabulary
space of the trained tokenizer, our experiments indicate that
a vocabulary size of 256 tokens yields slightly better perfor-
mance than 1024 tokens. We hypothesize that for a medium-
sized dataset such as SAP, a smaller vocabulary size may be
more advantageous in optimizing model performance.
Table 3:
Performance of Parakeet0.6B on the test3 subset
(5000samples), varying the decoder, learning rate (lr) and the
tokenizer vocab size
Decoder
Vocab Size
lr
WER
CTC
256
10−5
11.12
256
3×10−5
10.33
1024
10−5
14.89
1024
3×10−5
13.8
RNNT
256
10−5
5.1
256
3×10−5
4.9
1024
10−5
6.3
1024
3×10−5
7.1
While inference speed is not the focus of this work, Con-
textNet demonstrates a slight advantage over Parakeet, reflect-
ing their difference in model size. Specifically, transcribing the
test subset (5000 samples), with a batch size of 8, required ap-
proximately 3.45min and 6min for ContextNet and Parakeet, re-
spectively, on a NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3080 GPU. Among the
Parakeet variants, Parakeet-CTC showed faster inference than
the transducer version, despite its slower convergence during
training.
8. Conclusion
In this study, we present our participation in the SAPC chal-
lenge, where we leveraged the diversity of the SAP dataset to
address the performance gap in the ADSR literature. Specif-
ically, we investigated the power of some SOTA ASR mod-
els to capture the contextual information in disordered speech,
which is often influenced by the disfluencies inherent in im-
paired speech. Our experimental findings indicate that FastCon-
former demonstrates greater effectiveness in capturing these
disfluencies compared to ContextNet, a convolutional-based
ASR model.
This advantage is particularly evident in long-
form speech scenarios. Additionally, our results suggest that,
for future work, studying more variations of the context limit in
FastConformer is a promising direction and should be further
investigated for impaired speech. Moreover, our work can be
further optimized by incorporating external language models to
refine the acoustic model’s output.
3277

9. References
[1] H. Christensen, S. P. Cunningham, C. Fox, P. D. Green, and
T. Hain, “A comparative study of adaptive, automatic recognition
of disordered speech.” in Interspeech.
Portland, 2012, pp. 1776–
1779.
[2] N. Gohider and O. A. Basir, “Recent advancements in automatic
disordered speech recognition: A survey paper,” Natural Lan-
guage Processing Journal, p. 100110, 2024.
[3] V. Panayotov, G. Chen, D. Povey, and S. Khudanpur, “Lib-
rispeech: an asr corpus based on public domain audio books,”
in 2015 IEEE international conference on acoustics, speech and
signal processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2015, pp. 5206–5210.
[4] D. Wang, J. Yu, X. Wu, L. Sun, X. Liu, and H. Meng, “Improved
end-to-end dysarthric speech recognition via meta-learning based
model re-initialization,” in 2021 12th International Symposium on
Chinese Spoken Language Processing (ISCSLP).
IEEE, 2021,
pp. 1–5.
[5] J. Yu, X. Xie, S. Liu, S. Hu, M. W. Lam, X. Wu, K. H. Wong,
X. Liu, and H. Meng, “Development of the cuhk dysarthric speech
recognition system for the ua speech corpus.” in Interspeech,
2018, pp. 2938–2942.
[6] A. Craig, E. Blumgart, and Y. Tran, “The impact of stuttering
on the quality of life in adults who stutter,” Journal of fluency
disorders, vol. 34, no. 2, pp. 61–71, 2009.
[7] H. V. Sharma and M. Hasegawa-Johnson, “Universal access:
Speech recognition for talkers with spastic dysarthria,” in Tenth
Annual Conference of the International Speech Communication
Association, 2009.
[8] M. Hasegawa-Johnson, X. Zheng, H. Kim, C. Mendes, M. Dickin-
son, E. Hege, C. Zwilling, M. M. Channell, L. Mattie, H. Hodges
et al., “Community-supported shared infrastructure in support of
speech accessibility,” Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing
Research, vol. 67, no. 11, pp. 4162–4175, 2024.
[9] W. Han, Z. Zhang, Y. Zhang, J. Yu, C.-C. Chiu, J. Qin, A. Gulati,
R. Pang, and Y. Wu, “Contextnet: Improving convolutional neural
networks for automatic speech recognition with global context,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.03191, 2020.
[10] D. Rekesh, N. R. Koluguri, S. Kriman, S. Majumdar, V. Noroozi,
H. Huang, O. Hrinchuk, K. Puvvada, A. Kumar, J. Balam et al.,
“Fast conformer with linearly scalable attention for efficient
speech recognition,” in 2023 IEEE Automatic Speech Recognition
and Understanding Workshop (ASRU).
IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–8.
[11] N. R. Koluguri, S. Kriman, G. Zelenfroind, S. Majumdar,
D. Rekesh, V. Noroozi, J. Balam, and B. Ginsburg, “Investigating
end-to-end asr architectures for long form audio transcription,”
in ICASSP 2024-2024 IEEE International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2024, pp.
13 366–13 370.
[12] F. Rudzicz, “Comparing speaker-dependent and speaker-adaptive
acoustic models for recognizing dysarthric speech,” in Proceed-
ings of the 9th international ACM SIGACCESS conference on
Computers and accessibility, 2007, pp. 255–256.
[13] F. Rudzicz, G. Hirst, and P. van Lieshout, “Vocal tract representa-
tion in the recognition of cerebral palsied speech,” 2012.
[14] S. R. Shahamiri, “Speech vision: An end-to-end deep learning-
based dysarthric automatic speech recognition system,” IEEE
Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering,
vol. 29, pp. 852–861, 2021.
[15] S. R. Shahamiri, V. Lal, and D. Shah, “Dysarthric speech trans-
former: A sequence-to-sequence dysarthric speech recognition
system,” IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilita-
tion Engineering, 2023.
[16] T. Mariya Celin, P. Vijayalakshmi, and T. Nagarajan, “Data
augmentation techniques for transfer learning-based continuous
dysarthric speech recognition,” Circuits, Systems, and Signal Pro-
cessing, vol. 42, no. 1, pp. 601–622, 2023.
[17] A. C. Morris, V. Maier, and P. D. Green, “From wer and ril to
mer and wil: improved evaluation measures for connected speech
recognition.” in Interspeech, 2004, pp. 2765–2768.
[18] A. Aynetdinov and A. Akbik, “Semscore: Automated evaluation
of instruction-tuned llms based on semantic textual similarity,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.17072, 2024.
[19] A. Gulati, J. Qin, C.-C. Chiu, N. Parmar, Y. Zhang, J. Yu, W. Han,
S. Wang, Z. Zhang, Y. Wu et al., “Conformer: Convolution-
augmented transformer for speech recognition,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2005.08100, 2020.
[20] O. Kuchaiev, J. Li, H. Nguyen, O. Hrinchuk, R. Leary, B. Gins-
burg, S. Kriman, S. Beliaev, V. Lavrukhin, J. Cook et al., “Nemo:
a toolkit for building ai applications using neural modules,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:1909.09577, 2019.
3278
