Code Mix TTS: An Approach to Infer Human Like Speech for Multi-Lingual
Input Texts
Vishal Gourav, Phanindra Mankale
Oracle Corporation, India
vishal.gourav@oracle.com*, phanindra.mankale@oracle.com
Abstract
We have come a far way in terms of producing high quality,
human like audios for given input texts using TTS or Text to
Speech Systems. We simply provide the TTS system with an
input text and it generates an audio output. But, if we look
at it closely, we provide the input text in a particular language
only. However, as humans, while interacting with each other,
do we actually speak in just one particular language? The an-
swer is No, in most cases. Our speech in general, specially in
multiple language countries, is a mix of native language of the
specific country and a popular language(mostly English) and
sometimes the other way round where we mix a bit of the na-
tive language words in our English conversation. In this paper,
we talk about an approach to achieve the similar kind of ”Code
Mix” inference output for ”Multi-Lingual” input texts from our
TTS system without the need of any additional training data or
fine tuning.
Index Terms : TTS, Multi-Lingual Text, StyleTTS2,
Automated-MOS
1. Introduction
In this modern day and age, TTS is one of the most sought af-
ter pieces of technology that uses AI, more precisely Neural
Networks to produce audio for a given Text Input. If you have
ever used a modern TTS system, you would know that you have
to typically select the language, the speaker, the audio type,
the model you want to use for inference and last and most im-
portantly provide your input text in the language selected, and
voila, an audio is generated for you. The audio though, human
like might sound robotic to some listener because, we humans,
in general do not speak in a single language. Our speech gen-
erally comprises mostly of our native language with some filler
words coming from another language, which is mostly English.
Vice versa of the previous statement is also true as sometimes
we speak in English with a few filler words creeping in from our
Native language. These mistakes of mixing of languages while
speaking is what makes us human and the speech human like.
In general a TTS system consists of 5 stages as shown in
Figure 1. These are as follows:
Figure 1: Flow diagram of a TTS System
• Input Text: The input from the user in string format.
• Text Preprocessing : The input text is passed through a
Text Normalizer to convert inputs like currency symbols,
acronyms, etc. into their spoken forms. This spoken form
is then passed through the G2P which converts the text into
phonemes and then the phonemes to their mapped integers
which is the form in which the model can understand.
• Acoustic Model : The Acoustic Model takes the phoneme
integer numpy array and produces Mel Spectograms which is
a tensor containing elements of float datatype.
• Neural V ocoder: The vocoder accepts the output of the
acoustic model and produces the waveform tensor contain-
ing float type elements.
• Speech Waveform: The output from the vocoder is con-
verted to a numpy array which is then converted to .wav file.
In this paper, we try to present a way of achieving the
same human like ”Code Mix” audio from our Multi-Lingual
StyleTTS2[1] which is Style Diffusion based TTS Model, by
making changes to the Text Pre-processing layer.
2. Experiment
In our approach we first train a Multi-Lingual StyleTTS2 Model
with English(en-US)[2], Spanish(es-ES)[3], Portuguese(pt-
PT)[3] and Hindi(hi-IN) 1 Dataset. The total duration of the
standardized dataset came up to be approximately 1000 hrs
of audio with corresponding 370k utterances. All the datasets
listed, were standardized to adhere to the following nuances:
• Standardized Sample Rate: Audios resampled to 24 kHz.
• Standardized Pauses : Multiple audios joined with 800ms
pauses to enhance pauses during punctuations.
• Silence Padding: Padding of 400ms on either end of audio
to prevent inference noise.
• Audio Buffering: All samples less than 1 second in length
have been padded at the beginning(on the left side) to in-
crease their duration to greater than 1 second(model limita-
tion) thus, making them viable for training.
• Dataset Expansion: All samples having token length more
than 512(model limitation) for the transcriptions correspond-
ing to the audios in the dataset have been filtered out.
The first stage of training was run for 50 epochs with the
following configurations: max len as 200, batch size as 16,
sample rate as 24k, n token(number of neurons in input layer
of the NN) as 184, style dim as 128, decoder as iSTFTNet[4],
lr(learning rate) as 0.0001.
While for the second stage, which ran for 20 epochs, most
of the training hyper-parameters listed above, remained the
same with a few minor adjustments and some additional hyper-
parameters, which were: batch size as 2, diff epoch(style diffu-
sion starting epoch) as 3 and joint epoch(joint training starting
1Dataset produced in House
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2143
epoch) as 6.
The training was run on A100 GPUs and it ran for about 3.5
weeks, with the first stage taking about half of the time using 8
GPUs while the second stage taking up the rest of the time using
1 GPU(model limitation).
Now, that we have our Multi-Lingual Model trained we
went to the inference code, and further to the G2P layer which
uses Espeak-ng2 that phonemizes the text, before the tokenizer
tokenizes them into the corresponding mapped integers called
tokens(which is then passed to the TTS Model for inference).
This is where we added another layer. We came up with an
idea to write a script that recognizes the languages(maximum
of 2 for now) present in the input text and then break the
text into separate chunks of the corresponding languages. The
chunks would then be passed to the corresponding languages’
espeak-ng phonemizer which would produce the phonemes.
The chunks would then be joined back to make one single
phonemized text which would then be passed to the tokenizer to
get the tokens that would be passed to the model for inference.
A flow diagram with an example text comprising of English and
Hindi is shown in Figure 2.
Figure 2: Flow diagram of a Code-Mix TTS System
3. Evaluation
Now, we use this Multi-Lingual StyleTTS2 Model to create an
inference pipeline which takes input as text and returns an audio
in wav format. Each input text contains of a string in at-most
2 languages, one of them being English and the other being
any one out Spanish, Portuguese or Hindi. We then overlay a
pipeline for evaluation on top of the inference pipeline and pass
250 said input texts of average length of 210 characters from a
custom curated Code-Mix dataset. We run this pipeline on CPU
inference mode and evaluate on Automated-MOS(Automated
Mean Opinion Score), which is widely regarded as the best
comparison standard for TTS models, using Nisqa[5]. On com-
parison with other industry standard Models, we find that our
2Espeak-ng: https://github.com/espeak-ng/espeak-ng
model is performing on par with the them as can be seen in Ta-
ble 1. The Automated-MOS scores is very much comparable
to the StyleTTS2 model trained on a single language(English)
dataset, LJspeech[6] while, like StyleTTS2, it outperforms all
other other models like VITS[7] and YourTTS[8].
Table 1: Evaluation of our Code-Mix StyleTTS2 Model
StyleTTS2 Based TTS Models Other Models
Metrics Our Model StyleTTS2 VITS Y ourTTS
A-MOS(out of 5) 4.12 ± 0.09 4.12 ± 0.08 3.69 ± 0.12 2.35 ± 0.07
A vg Inf Time(secs) 2.88 ± 0.43 2.93 ± 0.22 2.81 ± 0.11 3.25 ± 0.17
4. Conclusion
In this paper, we showcase an approach to alter the G2P layer of
any typical TTS model to enhance its capability to process in-
put text in more than one language and generate corresponding,
high quality audio output. On subjective(human) evaluation, the
audios generated, sound much more natural as compared to sin-
gle language output as the input text is much more aligned how
humans actually speak. There can be a wide range of appli-
cations for such a TTS other the simple inference, like creating
large training dataset for ASR systems which can help them rec-
ognize audios having multi-lingual speech. Future work, on this
would be towards recognition and phonemization of text which
is mix of more than two languages without the compulsion of
one of them being English, as in the case of this paper. An-
other idea would be to recognize text that are actually spoken in
2 languages but written in a single language like, Hinglish 3 or
Portunish4, etc. The possibilities are endless.
5. References
[1] Y . A. Li, C. Han, V . Raghavan, G. Mischler, and N. Mesgarani,
“Styletts 2: Towards human-level text-to-speech through style dif-
fusion and adversarial training with large speech language models,”
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , vol. 36, pp.
19 594–19 621, 2023.
[2] Y . Koizumi, H. Zen, S. Karita, Y . Ding, K. Yatabe, N. Morioka,
M. Bacchiani, Y . Zhang, W. Han, and A. Bapna, “Libritts-r:
A restored multi-speaker text-to-speech corpus,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.18802, 2023.
[3] F. S. Oliveira, E. Casanova, A. C. Junior, A. S. Soares, and A. R.
Galv˜ao Filho, “Cml-tts: A multilingual dataset for speech synthesis
in low-resource languages,” in International Conference on Text,
Speech, and Dialogue. Springer, 2023, pp. 188–199.
[4] T. Kaneko, K. Tanaka, H. Kameoka, and S. Seki, “istftnet: Fast and
lightweight mel-spectrogram vocoder incorporating inverse short-
time fourier transform,” in ICASSP 2022-2022 IEEE International
Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2022, pp. 6207–6211.
[5] G. Mittag, B. Naderi, A. Chehadi, and S. M ¨oller, “Nisqa:
A deep cnn-self-attention model for multidimensional speech
quality prediction with crowdsourced datasets,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2104.09494, 2021.
[6] K. Ito and L. Johnson, “The lj speech dataset,” https://keithito.com/
LJ-Speech-Dataset/, 2017.
[7] J. Kim, J. Kong, and J. Son, “Conditional variational autoencoder
with adversarial learning for end-to-end text-to-speech,” in Inter-
national Conference on Machine Learning . PMLR, 2021, pp.
5530–5540.
[8] E. Casanova, J. Weber, C. D. Shulby, A. C. Junior, E. G ¨olge, and
M. A. Ponti, “Yourtts: Towards zero-shot multi-speaker tts and
zero-shot voice conversion for everyone,” in International confer-
ence on machine learning . PMLR, 2022, pp. 2709–2720.
3English Text containing Hindi words written in English
4Spanish Text containing Portuguese words written in Spanish
2144
