Unified Text and Speaker Verification using SSL model for Text-Dependent
Speaker Verification
Nathan Griot1,2, Driss Matrouf1, Raphael Blouet2,3, Jean-Franc ¸ois Bonastre1,4, Ana Mantecon3
1Laboratoire d’informatique d’Avignon, France
2Ardelan, France
3Daon, Ireland
4Defense&Security Department, Inria, France
firstname.lastname@univ-avignon.fr, firstletteroffirstnamelastname@Daon.com
Abstract
The work presented in this article falls within text-dependent
speaker recognition. In our framework, each speaker owns and
pronounces a secret phrase. It corresponds to two tasks: veri-
fication of the spoken text (Text Validation) and verification of
the speaker’s identity (SV). These tasks are usually carried-out
in tandem by two different systems. Maintaining two systems
involves a certain amount of complexity and may present short-
comings in terms of reliability. In this paper, we propose to use
a Self-Supervised Learning Model (SSL) to develop a unified
system capable of performing both tasks simultaneously. The
proposed approach combines two models on a common SSL
and takes advantage of a teacher-student paradigm to integrate
textual constraints into the SV part, without requiring lexical la-
bels during its learning phase. Evaluation on different datasets
demonstrates the effectiveness of the approach.
Index Terms: Speaker verification, Spoken text validation, SSL
model, Text-Dependent Speaker Verification
1. Introduction
Speaker Verification can be can be divided into two categories:
Text-Independent Speaker Verification (TI-SV) and Text-
Dependent Speaker Verification (TD-SV). Both approaches
aim to verify whether the two given audio recordings are
produced by the same speaker. However, TI-SV focuses solely
on speaker verification, while TD-SV extends this by verifying
the lexical content. Lexical verification offers an advantage in
security systems as it can be used for two-step authentication.
TD-SV task itself can be further subdivided into three distinct
approaches. It can be tailored to a specific lexical context
using a singular keyword with wake-up word detection such as
”Okay xxx” [1], it can also be tailored to a limited number of
words or pass-phrases such as voice commands ”turn on the
lights”, and finally, it can handle any lexical content.
Several approaches have been used for the TD-SV task.
One of the first solutions is to integrate phonetic information
by using phoneme classification as an auxiliary task to preserve
lexical information [2]. The phone classification auxiliary task
is done at the frame level while the speaker is done on at the
segment level. This approach performs well on a known set of
pass-phrases such as voice commands but it is limited by the
ability of a simple phone recognition tool to model the complex
effects of coarticulation. To overcome this limitation, a poten-
tially costly adaptation of the auxiliary phone classifier may be
necessary when new commands are introduced. Another ap-
proach is to introduce the text constraints in the SV system by
using speaker + lexical classes. Therefore a speaker can have
multiple classes depending on the lexical content pronounced
[3, 4, 5]. This can be achieved directly during the training phase
(or using a fine-tuning) of the system by changing the classifi-
cation head or introducing a PLDA backend. This approach
requires the use of substantial databases, labeled in lexical con-
tent and speaker, with strong constraints, such as the fact that
each sentence must be pronounced several times by the same
speaker and by other speakers. Finally, Text validation system
can be used as a lexical content filtering approach. They are
used to filter non-matching lexical content. Recently an ASR
filtering approach has been proposed using a Fast Conformer-
based Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) model [6].
This work focuses on TD-SV where the system can han-
dle any passphrase. In recent deep-learning SV approaches de-
rived from xVectors [7, 8], handling the lexical content requires
a large training dataset with data labeled at speaker and lexical
content level. In addition, a lexical content must be pronounced
several times by the same speaker, but also by a sufficient num-
ber of other speakers. To the best of our knowledge, no such
data sets exist, at least on a sufficiently large scale.
To address this issue we introduce a novel approach by
leveraging knowledge distillation through teacher-student ap-
proach [9]. The proposed teacher-student approach is a two-
step learning process. First, the teacher model is trained for a
text validation task using a large-scale dataset with lexical labels
and no speaker labels. Then, this lexical knowledge is trans-
ferred to the student model. The student model is trained for
a speaker recognition task using a dedicated dataset with only
speaker labels. It learns the lexical knowledge directly from
the teacher by using the MSE loss, comparing the teacher and
student embeddings. Once the student has been trained, it can
be used for both tasks, text validation and speaker recognition.
This unification reduces computation costs and can improve the
management and reliability for commercial applications. It can
also improve performance as multitasking is known for its po-
tential to enhance a specific task in speech processing [10].
In this work, we propose to exploit the SSL models for the
teacher and the student model. SSL models have been widely
used due to their training methodology, SSL models are trained
on a diverse and substantial amount of data, eliminating the
need for hard labels. This allows the models to adapt to a wide
range of tasks. SSL models have demonstrated their versatility
in various applications including natural language processing,
image recognition, object classification, and more [11, 12]. Re-
cent works have shown that such models can solve many speech
processing tasks [13, 14, 15]. Particularly, it is suggested to use
lower layers for speaker recognition and upper layers for lexical
information [16].
This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
1648 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1984

the experimental setup, including the datasets used for training
and evaluation. Next, Section 3, describes the baseline system
(text validation and speaker recognition) along with the corre-
sponding results. Subsequently, Section 4, presents the adopted
methodology and the proposed system architecture. In section
5, the overall results are compared to the baseline and explained.
Finally, in Section 5, we will summarize the approach, its re-
sults, and outline future directions.
2. Experimental Setup
In the context of TD-SV , the system has to accept only trials
that have the same speaker and the same lexical content while
refusing any other combination. This will be achieved by using
two systems: Text validation system followed by TI speaker
verification system. In this paper the speaker verification per-
formance will be presented only for test pairs having the same
lexical content. This section presents a description of the train-
ing and evaluation procedure of both tasks.
2.1. Dataset description
In this work three datasets are used, V oxCeleb1, DeepMine [17],
Common V oice2. V oxceleb2 is a large-scale speaker recognition
dataset obtained by extraction of open-source media. It has over
1 million utterances from around 6,000 speakers. This dataset
is widely used for TI-SV for training while V oxceleb1 is used
for evaluation.
DeepMine, is a multipurpose dataset, such as text-prompted
speaker verification, TD-SV or TI-SV . It is also a multilingual
dataset with both English and Persian audio recordings from
over 1,400 speakers and more than 350,000 recordings. Fi-
nally, we have CommonV oice made by Mozilla, similar to V ox-
celeb and DeepMine it is a large-scale dataset with multilingual
recordings. Common V oice recordings come with their corre-
sponding transcription which is key for our work.
2.2. Training datasets
In this work, out of the three datasets, V oxceleb and Common
V oice will be used for training. For speaker verification sys-
tem training we use V oxCeleb2 dataset, which contains a high
variety of speakers with multiple recordings per speaker. On the
other hand, for text validation, we use Common V oice dataset,
which contains broad lexical contents with multiple repetitions.
We proposed a training set on Common V oice by using the tran-
scriptions. We regrouped passphrases based on the transcrip-
tion and kept only passphrases repeated at least five times and
less than twenty times. This gave us close to 10,000 unique
passphrases for training. Using these 10,000 passphrases we
can make a classification head and extract an embedding repre-
senting the lexical content. The number of files shown in Tab. 1
is before any augmentation. Using Common V oice we are doing
on-the-fly augmentation using Musan dataset [18].
Table 1: Train corpus description. TV: Text-Validation, SV:
Speaker verification
Corpus Purpose nb files utterance spks Dur(s)
CV EN TV 158k 10.3k - 3.25
VOX-2 SV 1.09M - 6k 3
1https://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/ vgg/data/voxceleb/
2https://commonvoice.mozilla.org/
2.3. Evaluation datasets
The evaluation will be conducted on two datasets, DeepMine
and Common V oice (description in Table 2). Common V oice
will be used to assess the robustness of the text validation sys-
tem in both English and French evaluation sets. The DeepMine
dataset will be used to evaluate both the text validation system
(in English and Persian) and the speaker verification system.
In this paper, all experiments regarding speaker verification are
performed on recording pairs in which the lexical content is the
same. Our approach is based on the fact that the text validation
system filters out pairs of recordings with different lexical con-
tents. For this reason, the DeepMine speaker evaluation dataset
contains exclusively pairs with identical lexical contexts.
Table 2: Evaluation corpus description. TV: Text-Validation
TD-SV: Text-dependent Speaker Verification.
Corpus Purpose Trials utterance Dur (s)
CV EN TV 268k 1740 3.25
CV FR TV 381k 225 3.47
DM EN TV & SV 27k 5 2.30
DM EN TD-SV 27k 5 2.30
DM FA TV 25.4k 5 1.9
VOX-1 SV 37k / -
All evaluations use the Equal-Error Rate metrics (EER) and
the Tandem Equal-Error Rate (T-EER) for the TD-SV trial [19].
3. Baseline
3.1. Text Validation
The Text validation baseline system uses the ResNet34 archi-
tecture, where the target class is the sentence ID. The system is
trained on a subset of English Common V oice described in 2.2.
All system parameters are optimized using the Additive Angu-
lar Margin Loss (AAM) [20]. The amount of available data and
unique passphrases makes it possible to train the text validation
system from scratch. This system generates an embedding that
represents the lexical content. For evaluation, we use the cosine
similarity backend process using the embeddings to generate a
score used to accept or reject the pair of utterances. Table 3
shows the performance in the Common V oice and DeepMine
evaluation datasets in two languages (English and French). The
performances are very good in all cases, especially for English
which is the language used during training.
Table 3: EER of the text validation task system evaluation per-
formances on DeepMine and Common Voice for the lexical ver-
ification task.
DM EN DM FA CV EN CV FR
ResNet34 0.21% 2.2% 0.28% 2.4%
3.2. TI Speaker verification
Our baseline TI-SV will be the ReDimNet architecture [21].
We chose the ReDimNet because of its recent introduction and
demonstration of state-of-the-art results for TI-SV . Addition-
ally, we used the provided ReDimNet, ensuring that all of the
following results using the ReDimNet can be replicated3.
3https://github.com/IDRnD/ReDimNet
1649

Table 4: EER of the ReDimNet system evaluation performances
on DeepMine and VoxCeleb1 for the TI-SV task.
V oxceleb1 DM EN
ReDimNet 0.49% 4.55%
4. Unified TD-SV SSL
For our SSL choice, we decided to use the large WavLm SSL
model [16] 4. The WavLM model is an SSL model used for
speech processing. It was successfully applied on multiple
speech processing tasks such as speaker verification and seman-
tics. For TI speaker verification, the SSL models have been used
in combination with Multi-Head Factorized Attention pooling
(MHFA) backend [22]. In this work, we will apply the MHFA
for the speaker verification and for the text validation backend.
For training, the V oxCeleb2 dataset will be used as main train-
ing source, removing the need for transcription or lexical iden-
tification. To do so we will utilize the teacher-student learning
approach. A teacher system is trained on Common V oice for
text validation, the teacher generates lexical embedding used as
soft labels for the student system.
4.1. Text validation Teacher SSL
The teacher architecture can be seen in Fig.1 and is structured as
follows: the core component is the large WavLM model, which
consists of 24 layers. The outputs from all 24 layers are ex-
tracted and fed into the MHFA. The embedding produced by
the MHFA represents the lexical content, it is then provided to
a classification head using AAM loss. The text validation em-
bedding is also necessary in evaluation using cosine similarity.
Table 5 shows the text validation results of the teacher system on
all evaluation datasets. Comparing Table 5 and Table 3, we can
see a clear superiority of SSL over ResNet for text validation,
especially for English which is the language used for training.
Figure 1: Teacher SSL architecture. The teacher SSL is fine-
tuned only for the text validation task.
Table 5: EER of the Text validation task system evaluation per-
formances on DeepMine and Common Voice for the lexical ver-
ification task.
DM EN DM FA CV EN CV FR
SSL teacher 0.07% 2% 0.17% 2.9%
4https://huggingface.co/microsoft/wavlm-large
4.2. Multitask Student SSL
The student SSL model is a multitask system performing both
speaker verification and text validation. During training, two
learning rates are employed: one for fine-tuning the WavLM
model, set at 10−6, and another for the rest of the system, set
at 10−3. Both tasks use the WavLM Large model as a common
block.
In Fig. 2 we can see, firstly, the speaker block in blue, it uses
layers 7 to 12 of the WavLM system for the MHFA block. The
MHFA block compresses the input into an embedding, which
serves as the speaker representation during evaluation. During
training, this embedding is fed into a classification head with
5994 classes using AAM loss, corresponding to the number of
unique speakers in the V oxCeleb2 dataset.
Secondly, we have the text validation block in green (see
Fig. 2 ). The text validation block employs an MHFA block
similar to the one used in the speaker block; however, unlike
the speaker block, this MHFA utilizes layers 1 to 24 of the large
WavLM model. The MHFA reduces this information to an em-
bedding. The resulting lexical embedding is compared to the
lexical embedding from the teacher using Mean Squared Error
(MSE) loss. The text validation block is trained by using the
MSE criterion between the teacher-given lexical embedding and
the student-given lexical embedding. The entire system is then
trained by optimizing the sum of the two objective functions:
MSE loss for the lexical part and AAM loss for the speaker
part.
Figure 2: Full architecture, presenting both student and teacher
architecture. The student is trained on VoxCeleb2 with blue side
for speaker classification and green side using MSE loss on lex-
ical embeddings.
5. SSL Student performances
5.1. Text validation
All text validation results can be found in Table 6. From these
results, we can see that the student outperforms on all evalua-
tion sets both the ResNet34 baseline but also the teacher SSL.
The teacher-student approach showed its effectiveness by hav-
ing the student outperforming the teacher. In this work the
teacher-student approach was used to remove the need for hard-
labeled data on lexical content. This approach seems effective,
but the exact reason why it was so effective needs to be further
tested, however, we think it is due to the soft labels being richer
and reducing the risk of overfitting. Also, we believe the mul-
titask approach helped preserve information resulting in a more
efficient lexical embedding.
1650

Table 6: Text verification EER. Comparing ResNet34 architecture and SSL student and teacher text verification. Performances are
evaluated in three different languages, English, French, and Persian.
Model/EER% Common V oice EN Common V oice FR DeepMine EN DeepMine FA
ResNet 34 0.28 2.4 0.21 2.43
SSL teacher 0.17 2.9 0.07 2
SSL student 0.1 1.7 0.03 1.4
5.2. Speaker verification
All speaker verification results can be found in Table 7. The
SSL student outperforms the ReDimNet on the DeepMine lex-
ical subset. On the other side the ReDimNet outperforms on
V oxCeleb1. In our use case the DeepMine dataset is more rep-
resentative as it contains only matching lexical pairs. As pre-
viously stated the text validation is used as a filter, filtering out
all non-matching lexical content pairs. Evaluating the speaker
system on lexical matching pairs is more representative of the
real use case.
We believe that performing multitask training helped the
speaker verification system when the lexical content is the same.
As we force the lexical information to be retained in the SSL
layers during finetuning for the text validation task. This in-
formation is likely used for speaker verification gaining perfor-
mance when the lexical content is identical. Furthermore, this
may also explain the performance degradation in the case of
V oxCeleb1 where the lexical content does not match in the test
pairs recordings.
Table 7: EER of the ReDimNet and SSL student system evalu-
ation performances on DeepMine and VoxCeleb1 for the TI-SV
task
V oxCeleb1 DM EN
ReDimNet 0.49% 4.55%
SSL student 1.29% 3.49%
5.3. Text-dependent speaker verification
For TD-SV evaluation, we will use tandem-EER (T-EER) [19].
T-EER is a variation of the well-known EER, it is used for
tandem architectures. In our case, text validation is followed
by speaker verification. The following table 8 and figure 3,4
demonstrate the performance on TD-SV evaluation set using
this metric. In figures 3,4 the intersection of the blue line rep-
resented with a pink dot is the optimal threshold for the tandem
system. The T-EER is then computed using those thresholds.
Table 8 resume the results given by the figures. We can notice
first that the separation between matching and non-matching
lexical content is far better for the SSL and secondly that the
results are similar to the TI-SV results. This is an effect of the
speaker verification system being the most limiting system be-
tween the two.
Table 8: T-EER on the baseline against the unified SSL on Deep-
Mine English TD-SV evaluation set.
System/Concurrent T-eer DM EN
baseline (ReDimNet + ResNet34) 4.28%
SSL student 3.46%
Figure 3: T-EER evaluation using both baseline models Text
validation: ResNet34, Speaker verification: ReDimNet. Y-axis
represent the lexical verification score, X-axis represents the
Speaker verification score
Figure 4: T-EER evaluation using both unified SSL TDSV sub-
tasks. Y axis represents the lexical verification score, X-axis
represents the Speaker verification score
6. Conclusion
In this article, we proposed to use SSL models to develop an
unified system capable of doing both text validation and speaker
verification tasks. We implemented teacher-student approach to
bypass data limitation allowing us to leverage lexical informa-
tion from unlabeled speech data. This approach makes it easy
and cheap to adapt to new languages. We have demonstrated
the effectiveness of the proposed approach by introducing an
experimental protocol using several databases and several lan-
guages. We have shown that the student outperforms both the
challenging baseline and the teacher system for text validation.
At the same time, the student system outperforms the baseline
speaker recognition system on DeepMine evaluation set.
The proposed approach proposes a tandem verification using
two tasks (namely speaker and text verification) of the unified
system. We believe that the interaction between these two tasks
can be mutually beneficial, enhancing the overall performance.
For this reason, future work will focus on further exploring and
optimizing the interaction between the two tasks.
1651

7. References
[1] G. Heigold, I. Moreno, S. Bengio, and N. Shazeer, “End-to-
end text-dependent speaker verification,” in 2016 IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP), 2016, pp. 5115–5119.
[2] Y . Liu, Z. Li, L. Li, and Q. Hong, “Phoneme-Aware and Channel-
Wise Attentive Learning for Text Dependent Speaker Verifica-
tion,” in Proc. Interspeech 2021, 2021, pp. 101–105.
[3] T. Stafylakis, P. Kenny, P. Ouellet, J. Perez, M. Kockmann, and
P. Dumouchel, “Text-dependent speaker recognition using plda
with uncertainty propagation,” in Interspeech 2013, vol. 500, 08
2013.
[4] Z. Chen and Y . Lin, “Improving x-vector and plda for text-
dependent speaker verification.” in INTERSPEECH, 2020, pp.
726–730.
[5] N. Chen, Y . Qian, and K. Yu, “Multi-task learning for text-
dependent speaker verification,” in Interspeech 2015, 2015, pp.
185–189.
[6] M. Molavi and R. Khodadadi, “The svasr system for text-
dependent speaker verification (tdsv) aaic challenge 2024,” 2024.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.16276
[7] D. Snyder, D. Garcia-Romero, G. Sell, D. Povey, and S. Khudan-
pur, “X-vectors: Robust dnn embeddings for speaker recognition,”
in 2018 IEEE international conference on acoustics, speech and
signal processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2018, pp. 5329–5333.
[8] H. Wang, C. Liang, S. Wang, Z. Chen, B. Zhang, X. Xiang,
Y . Deng, and Y . Qian, “Wespeaker: A research and production
oriented speaker embedding learning toolkit,” in ICASSP 2023-
2023 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–5.
[9] C. Hu, X. Li, D. Liu, H. Wu, X. Chen, J. Wang,
and X. Liu, “Teacher-student architecture for knowledge
distillation: A survey,” 2023. [Online]. Available: https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2308.04268
[10] Y .-C. Chen, S. wen Yang, C.-K. Lee, S. See, and H. yi Lee,
“Speech representation learning through self-supervised pre-
training and multi-task finetuning,” 2021. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2110.09930
[11] A. Ciocarlan, S. Lefebvre, S. L. H ´egarat-Mascle, and A. Woiselle,
“Self-supervised learning for real-world object detection: a
survey,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.
07442
[12] L. C. Huang, D. J. Chiu, and M. Mehta, “Self-supervised
learning featuring small-scale image dataset for treatable retinal
diseases classification,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2404.10166
[13] C. Wang, Y . Wu, S. Chen, S. Liu, J. Li, Y . Qian, and
Z. Yang, “Self-supervised learning for speech recognition
with intermediate layer supervision,” 2021. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.08778
[14] Z. Chen, N. Kanda, J. Wu, Y . Wu, X. Wang, T. Yoshioka, J. Li,
S. Sivasankaran, and S. E. Eskimez, “Speech separation with
large-scale self-supervised learning,” inICASSP 2023-2023 IEEE
international conference on acoustics, speech and signal process-
ing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–5.
[15] D. Combei, A. Stan, D. Oneata, and H. Cucu, “Wavlm
model ensemble for audio deepfake detection,” 2024. [Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.07414
[16] S. Chen, C. Wang, Z. Chen, Y . Wu, S. Liu, Z. Chen, J. Li,
N. Kanda, T. Yoshioka, X. Xiao, J. Wu, L. Zhou, S. Ren,
Y . Qian, Y . Qian, J. Wu, M. Zeng, X. Yu, and F. Wei,
“Wavlm: Large-scale self-supervised pre-training for full stack
speech processing,” IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal
Processing, vol. 16, no. 6, p. 1505–1518, Oct. 2022. [Online].
Available: http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JSTSP.2022.3188113
[17] H. Zeinali, H. Sameti, and T. Stafylakis, “Deepmine speech
processing database: Text-dependent and independent speaker
verification and speech recognition in persian and english,” inThe
Speaker and Language Recognition Workshop , 2018. [Online].
Available: https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:51743953
[18] D. Snyder, G. Chen, and D. Povey, “MUSAN: A Music, Speech,
and Noise Corpus,” 2015, arXiv:1510.08484v1.
[19] T. Kinnunen, K. Lee, H. Tak, N. Evans, and A. Nautsch, “t-eer:
Parameter-free tandem evaluation of countermeasures and bio-
metric comparators (to appear),” IEEE Transactions on Pattern
Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 2023.
[20] J. Deng, J. Guo, J. Yang, N. Xue, I. Kotsia, and S. Zafeiriou,
“Arcface: Additive angular margin loss for deep face recognition,”
IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence,
vol. 44, no. 10, p. 5962–5979, Oct. 2022. [Online]. Available:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TPAMI.2021.3087709
[21] I. Yakovlev, R. Makarov, A. Balykin, P. Malov, A. Okhotnikov,
and N. Torgashov, “Reshape dimensions network for speaker
recognition,” in Interspeech 2024 . ISCA, Sep. 2024, p.
3235–3239. [Online]. Available: http://dx.doi.org/10.21437/
Interspeech.2024-2116
[22] J. Peng, O. Plchot, T. Stafylakis, L. Mosner, L. Burget, and
J. Cernocky, “An attention-based backend allowing efficient
fine-tuning of transformer models for speaker verification,” 2022.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.01273
1652
