warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Theoretical proposal for a unified Bayesian model of adaptation in
non-interactive and interactive speech production
M´elen Guillaume1,2, Anahita Basirat1, Julien Diard2
1Univ. Lille, CNRS UMR 9193 - SCALab - Sciences Cognitives et Sciences Affectives, F-59000,
Lille, France
2Univ. Grenoble Alpes, Univ. Savoie Mont Blanc, CNRS, LPNC, 38000 Grenoble, France
melen.guillaume@univ-lille.fr, anahita.basirat@univ-lille.fr,
julien.diard@univ-grenoble-alpes.fr
Abstract
In the scientific study of speech production, as well as
in speech and language therapy, a variety of experimental
paradigms and tasks resulting in plasticity and adaptation of
the system are used. However, existing computational models
accounting for adaptation appear segregated: feedback effects
during non-interactive, altered speech are mostly accounted for
by speech production models, whereas accommodation effects
during interactive speech are mostly accounted for by speech
perception models. In this paper, we consider COSMO, a pre-
vious unified Bayesian framework of speech perception and
speech production, as the basis for a theoretical proposal and
Bayesian model of adaptation effects. We show how these ef-
fects in both non-interactive and interactive speech production
experiments could be described in this framework, thanks for
its ability to separate knowledge and representations from their
involvement during speech tasks.
Index Terms:
speech production, modeling, perception-
production
1. Introduction
The link between speech perception and production has been
extensively studied, using a variety of experimental paradigms,
including non-interactive speech (i.e., speech produced by a
participant without any interlocutor) [1, 2, 3], or interactive
speech such as dialogue [4, 5]. For a review, see [6].
In non-interactive speech production tasks, a common ex-
perimental manipulation consists in altering speech production,
either through constraining the vocal tract itself (e.g., with a
bite-block or lip-tube, or by stretching the skin of the cheeks),
by altering somatosensory perception, or by manipulating the
acoustic signal resulting from production (e.g., altered auditory
feedback experiments). Such manipulations typically induce
plasticity in the system, resulting in adaptation. In interactive
speech production tasks, it is also common to observe plastic-
ity and adaptation of the system: communication with an inter-
locutor, in and of itself, induces plasticity (e.g., phonetic con-
vergence).
It is striking to note that, despite the apparent similarity of
experimental situations and resulting plasticity, the theoretical
and computational accounts of these phenomena appear mostly
disjoint. On the one hand, non-interactive speech effects are
typically explored by computational models of speech motor
control [7, 8, 9, 10]. On the other hand, interactive speech ef-
fects are typically explored by computational models of speech
perception [11, 12].
Of course, conceptual theories of the interaction between
the speech perception and production systems have already
been proposed, to integrate perception and comprehension in
a production conceptual model (e.g., Interactive Alignment the-
ory [13]), or to consider the role of motor knowledge during
speech perception (e.g., PACT [14]). Computational models of
such theories would be useful, but are currently lacking.
Understanding the interplay between speech perception and
production in non-interactive or interactive speech production
contexts is also relevant from the point of view of speech ther-
apy. Indeed, speech and language therapy often employs meth-
ods involving speaker model imitation and repetition, which en-
gage both perception and production. Interestingly, some inter-
ventions for speech production disorders target both aspects si-
multaneously. For instance, the LSVT-LOUD method, widely
used for speech production impairments in Parkinson’s disease,
exemplifies this approach by “retraining sensory perception of
normal loudness (self-monitoring) and internal cueing (self-
generating normal loudness)” [15, p. 1778]. In stuttering treat-
ment, an effective fluency-enhancing technique involves listen-
ing and synchronizing with a metronome (e.g., [16]).
This
method requires producing each syllable or word in time with a
regular auditory beat. Moreover, the interplay between percep-
tion and production is crucial when characterizing speech im-
pairments. For instance, [17] suggested that a deficit in external
auditory feedback monitoring in Parkinson’s disease could lead
to alterations in motor representations, ultimately resulting in
production disorders.
Overall, developing an integrated computational model of
speech perception and production is essential, not only for the-
oretical interest but also for better understanding and managing
speech and language impairments. As of now, and to the best of
our knowledge, no single integrative computational framework
would be able to account for plasticity effects observed in the
variety of experimental paradigms studying speech production.
In this paper, we propose to outline a theoretical pro-
posal using Bayesian modeling to address this issue, paving
the way towards a computational implementation. We consider
the COSMO framework (Communicating Objects by Sensory-
Motor Operations), a previous Bayesian model of speech per-
ception and speech production [18, 19]. In the COSMO frame-
work, each communicating agent is associated with a set of rep-
resentations and knowledge, to relate their linguistic goals with
articulatory and sensory spaces. The main assumption of the
COSMO framework is that this limited set of representations
and knowledge would be involved whatever the task at hand,
that is, both during perception and production.
Therefore, our theoretical objective is to show how the
COSMO framework could be applied to the variety of exper-
imental situations relevant to the study of speech production:
to account for adaptation effects during altered non-interactive
speech, and to account for accommodation effects during inter-
active speech. In the rest of this paper, we first outline the main
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
1028
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1751

effects of adaptation in non-interactive and interactive speech,
along with the particular case of synchronous speech. We then
recall the COSMO framework, and show how it would inte-
grate these various observed phenomena in a unified conceptual
framework.
2. Speech production experimental
paradigms
2.1. Adaptation in non-interactive speech
One of the most common experimental contexts to study the
interplay between speech perception and speech production in-
volves a production task without interaction, and an alteration
of the produced speech produced, for instance by modifying
characteristics of the acoustic signal such as its pitch [10, 20],
formant frequencies [2], or by adding delay [21]. The results
from those experiments highlight that participants tend to com-
pensate fully or partially for the perturbation they are exposed
to. In theories of speech motor control, this can be explained
by the effect of feedback on speech production [8]. The most
common explanation of this phenomenon considers an auditory
feedback mechanism, resulting from the difference between the
expected and observed acoustic signals [7, 8, 22]. When such a
difference occurs, it would be propagated back along the speech
production system, so that the system would adapt, to correct
future productions of the same utterance. In other words, this
feedback-based adaptation system would be “internal” to the
speech production system: the acoustic signal is only consid-
ered in its comparison with the expected acoustic consequence
of production; no mapping of this acoustic signal into categories
is involved.
Many computational models of speech motor control have
already been proposed, including DIVA [8], TD [7], SFC [10],
FACTS [9], ACT [23] and GEPPETO [24]. For a review, see
[25].
Among these, some consider auditory-based feedback
mechanisms, and can account for the adaptation responses in
altered speech paradigms, at least qualitatively. These include
DIVA [26, 8], FACTS [9], and SFC [10].
Importantly, an assumption generally made in this family
of models is to consider that speech targets, once established
through development by learning, would be invariant. Conse-
quently, speech production adaptation would only help reach
speech targets in adverse conditions [8, 22].
However, this
strong delineation between learning and adaptation, while a vi-
able first simplifying assumption, certainly is not straightfor-
ward. For instance, it is known that older community mem-
bers unintentionally adjust their accents to reflect changes in
speech patterns introduced by younger members of the commu-
nity [27, 28].
To address that issue, the ACT model considers that feed-
back would stem from a high-level comparisons between ab-
stract phoneme representations rather than actual auditory char-
acteristics of speech sound (F1, F2, F3), inducing changes in
auditory targets. In line with this hypothesis, a Bayesian model
created to evaluate motor adaptation in speech production and
perception [29] also suggested that simultaneous adaptation of
auditory targets and of the sensorimotor component of the mo-
tor system would account for a variety of adaptation effects in
altered speech experiments.
2.2. Adaptation in interactive speech
A more ecological situation than non-interactive speech is asyn-
chronous interactive speech where participants communicate
with an interlocutor, and alternate between speech comprehen-
sion and speech production (e.g., dialogue). Studies have been
conducted where participants were interacting with a virtual
agent [30] or with another human agent [11, 4]. In both sit-
uations, participants have been shown to accommodate their
speech production features to characteristics of their interlocu-
tor.
This phenomenon can be labeled as “speech accommoda-
tion” between speakers and is suggested to occur at different
linguistic levels [4] and happen for phonetic details [30] as well
as for speech rate and rhythm [31]. According to the Interactive
Alignment model [13], covert imitation of speech is generated
by both interlocutors, and speech is perceived through an in-
verse forward model of speech production. With the further
assumption that the systems in speech production and percep-
tion are common, this leads to mutual accommodation between
the interlocutors. However, in the Interactive Alignment model,
accommodation for phonetic detail has not been explicitly in-
troduced. In line with [6], we consider that it would still predict
and account for phonetic accommodation.
Another theory on accommodation, the Communication
Accommodation Theory [32] offers a complementary perspec-
tive by focusing on the social motivations behind speech adap-
tation. It suggests that speakers may converge or diverge in their
speech patterns based on their desire to affiliate with or distance
themselves from their interlocutors.
To our knowledge, there is no computational model of
speech production that would be able to account for accommo-
dation effects in interactive speech production. However, com-
putational models of speech perception have been applied to
account for accommodation effects. For instance, a Bayesian
framework of speech perception [12] proposed that listeners
adapt how they map auditory signals to phonetic units to their
interlocutor’s mapping.
A more recent Bayesian framework
[11] also proposed different methods of adaptation for listen-
ers to accommodate their phonetic mapping in a more con-
strained environment (listeners were asked to explicitly adapt
to a speaker).
2.3. Adaptation in synchronous speech
Previously, we considered two situations of speech produc-
tion that can induce adaptation: non-interactive speech, where
adaptation is mostly interpreted as feedback-based, and in-
teractive speech, where adaptation is mostly interpreted as
accommodation-based.
These situations also differ on the
source of acoustic stimuli (endogenous in non-interactive
speech; exogenous in interactive speech) and their temporal di-
mension (synchronous or almost synchronous with production
in non-interactive speech; mostly asynchronous with production
in interactive speech).
One can thus wonder what would happen in a situation
where interlocutors would speak synchronously with one an-
other, and whether both feedback-based and accommodation-
based adaptation would occur. In an experiment involving both
effects [5], participants were asked to speak synchronously with
a recorded speaker. In this experiment, participants were shown
to converge towards the F0 of the recorded speaker, but at least
one fifth of the participants were shown to diverge from the F0
of the recorded speaker. In another synchronous speech experi-
ment [33], all participants synchronized their speech to one an-
1029

other, but only half of them had their first two formant frequen-
cies shifted in response to altered speech perceived during the
task.. Results showed that participants who had their speech
modified had similar response on average, but with increased
variability.
These results suggest that feedback and accommodation
could influence speech production adaptation simultaneously.
The increased variability would originate from individual differ-
ences in the balance between both adaptation mechanisms. As
we have argued above, computational models of speech produc-
tion so far do not appear able to consider such combinations of
adaptation mechanisms, since they rather focus specifically on
one of them. To fully comprehend the interplay between various
adaptation mechanisms, a comprehensive computational model
is essential.
Outside of speech modeling, a computational model of
rhythm production and adaptation in music was developed, that
describes an analogous situation to synchronous speech, with
concurrent rhythm production and listening.
The Phase and
Tempo Inference from Point Process Event Timing model [34]
is a Bayesian model of rhythmic tracking in which tempo is
continuously inferred based on prior expectations and sensory
events. Rhythm estimates are dynamically adjusted by integrat-
ing event timing, uncertainty, and expectation-based distortions.
This approach effectively captures key aspects of human rhythm
perception and adaptation, particularly in the context of tapping
with rhythmic cueing.
Synchronous speech suggests a final argument concerning
the distinction, if it exists, between feedback-based adaptation
and accommodation. Indeed, consider extreme cases of syn-
chronous speech, characterized by dimensions including the
temporal delay between speakers, the difference between vo-
cal characteristics and between phonetic contents. First, imag-
ine a situation without any temporal delay between speak-
ers, without any timbre difference, and where speakers would
pronounce exactly the same thing.
This situation of “syn-
chronous speech” would be perfectly indistinguishable from
non-interactive speech, that is, there is a single speaker hearing
the auditory consequence of his or her own production. Sec-
ond, imagine the other extreme situation, with a large tempo-
ral mismatch, an obvious timbre difference between the two
speakers, and difference in speech contents: this corresponds
to “synchronous speech” with overlapping speech segments, as
is commonly observed during dialogue.
If one extreme situation clearly elicits feedback-based
adaptation, and the other accommodation, and if there exists a
continuum between the situations, this strongly suggests that
there also would be a continuum between adaptation mech-
anisms.
Instead of hypothesizing a general mechanism that
would “look like” feedback-based adaptation or accommoda-
tion in extreme cases, in the context of the current paper, our
position is to, at least, consider that various combinations of
feedback-based adaptation and accommodation should be inte-
grated into a single computational model.
3. Theoretical proposition of a Bayesian
framework
While traditional computational models of speech production
excel at handling feedback-based adaptation in non-interactive
speech, they struggle to account for the flexible nature of speech
targets and accommodation phenomena observed in interactive
contexts, which are mostly considered by computational models
Figure 1: Theoretical Bayesian model of speech production and
perception. Adapted from [18]
of speech perception. Moreover, we have argued that a contin-
uum with varying degrees of combination between feedback-
based adaptation and accommodation should be integrated in a
computational model. Therefore, our theoretical objective is to
propose a unified conceptual model, that would describe how,
in speech motor control, the two seemingly distinct mechanisms
of internal feedback-based adaptation and external accommoda-
tion could be reconciled. To do so, we first briefly review the
Bayesian COSMO framework. Then, we will show how vari-
ous adaptation effects could be accounted for, providing the first
computational model taking into account adaptation in a unified
perception-production framework.
3.1. The COSMO framework
The COSMO framework is a family of models that were de-
veloped as a unified computational model encompassing both
production and perception tasks, and involving both a percep-
tual and a motor system [18]. In its initial and simpler form,
COSMO is a Bayesian model relating linguistic objects O,
which we assume to be phonemes in the context of this paper
and for simplicity, articulatory gestures M and acoustic sig-
nals S. A probabilistic model involving these three represen-
tational spaces is defined by the joint probability distribution
P(C OL S M OS), decomposed as:
P(C OL S M OS) =P(OS)P(M | OS)P(S | M)
(1)
P(OL | S)P(C | OL OS) .
This dependency architecture is represented Figure 1.
A central assumption of the COSMO framework is that rep-
resentation spaces and the knowledge components that relate
them are the same, whatever the considered task. This poses a
slight terminological challenge to describe the terms appearing
in Eq. (1), as the interpretation of model components are usually
task or context dependent. To take a simple example relevant
to the current paper: in speech production, S would typically
refer to the acoustic consequence of a motor gesture, whereas
in speech perception, S would refer to the acoustic stimulus.
Nevertheless: P(OL) would be interpreted as a prior probabil-
ity distribution over phonemes “from the point of view of the
speaker”; P(M | OS) would be the phonemic motor repertoire
associating motor gestures to phonemes; P(S | M) would be
an internal representation of the articulatory-to-acoustic trans-
formation; P(OL | S) would be a phonemic sensory classifier;
and finally, P(C | OL OS), with C a Boolean variable, would
assess or enforce an equality constraint on the two phonemic
representations OL and OS.
In interactive situations, the communicating agent de-
scribed by the P(C OL S M Os) probability distribution, illus-
trated in Figure 1, interacts with the environment and an inter-
locutor. Therefore, we also consider the interlocutor’s phone-
1030

mic objects (differentiating OS1 from OS2), their motor ges-
tures (differentiating M1 and M2), their acoustic consequences
through the physical medium (M2 to S), and an external con-
straint verification mechanism on the phonemic agreement be-
tween interlocutors (Boolean variable CE, differentiated from
the internal constraint CI). In what follows, variables are in-
dexed to differentiate between the speaker and the interlocutor
when it is useful.
3.2. Bayesian accounts of the three speech production situ-
ations
In
the
COSMO
framework,
speech
production
corre-
sponds to computing, from the joint probability distribution
P(C OL S M OS), a term of the form P(M | O), that is,
the probability distribution over motor gestures M given some
intended linguistic object O [18].
The COSMO framework
subsumes existing theories of speech production:
if the
considered linguistic target O is OS, computing P(M | OS)
amounts to a purely motor theory of speech production; if the
target O is OL, computing P(M | OL) amounts to a sensory
theory of speech production (e.g., motor production to reach
auditory targets if S is acoustic in nature); finally, if both
linguistic object spaces are considered (through the constraint
C = True), then computing P(M | OS [C = True]) amounts
to a perceptuo-motor theory of speech production.
In non-interactive speech, the first step of the process is
endogenous production of a speech segment. For simplicity,
we consider here a purely motor theory of speech production.
Therefore, the first step is selecting a motor gesture m, for in-
stance by drawing it at random according to P(M1 | OS1).
Producing m has two consequences:
first, acoustic conse-
quences s through the physical environment; second, prediction
of expected consequences s′ through the internal model of the
physical transformation.
In non-interactive speech, observing a discrepancy between
s and s′ suggests that some or all components of the system are
not perfect, and could be improved. This is the starting point of
any feedback-based adaptation mechanism. At this stage, most
computational models assume that this would yield adaptation
of either the internal model linking motor gestures to sensory
consequences [22, 9] or in the classifiers associating acoustic
signals with objects and motor gestures with objects [23]; while
others argue that adaptation would affect both the auditory clas-
sifier and internal model [29].
In interactive speech, the first step of the process is re-
ceiving an acoustic signal s produced by an interlocutor. The
main task in this context is speech comprehension.
In the
COSMO framework and assuming a perceptuo-motor theory of
speech perception, this is performed by computing P(OS1 |
[S = s] [CI = True]). Technically, thanks to the constraint
[CI = True], this amounts to inferring both OS1 and OL from
stimulus s. Moreover, computing this term also involves in-
ference over the motor space M1, which can be interpreted as
analysis-by-synthesis.
In interactive speech, accommodation effects suggest that
this perception process, involving the stimulus s, inferred o, and
implicitly inferred m, would yield adaptation of the components
of the model. Existing models of accommodation would con-
sider that adaptation occurs in the internal model linking motor
gestures to sensory consequences [13], or an adaptation of the
classifier linking acoustic signal and objects [12].
In synchronous speech, the process starts with the produc-
tion of an acoustic signal s, a prediction of this signal s′, and the
simultaneous perception of a signal produced by an interlocutor
s′′. The task in this context would be to both decode s′′, as in
interactive situations, and monitor production by examining any
difference between s and s′, as in non-interactive situations.
We postulate that the simultaneous performance of both sit-
uations would generate dependence, and possibly, interference.
At the very least, they raise a “stimulus attribution” issue: if the
voice of the interlocutor is not detected as such and is consid-
ered as coming from the speaker, it could trigger the feedback
pathway and yield feedback-based adaptation; if the voice of the
speaker is treated as external input, it could trigger the external
pathway and yield accommodation. We hypothesize that the
observed results in synchronous speech experiments, namely
inter-individual differences [5, 33, 35], could be accounted for
by variability in stimulus attribution. In the speech-to-speech
synchronization experiment [35], participants could form ex-
pectations s′, but, because they did not hear their voice, they
could not perceive s, and could use s′′ instead. Our framework
could explain the variability observed between participants, as-
suming that some would rely on s′′, more so than others. Ma-
nipulating the recorded speaker’s acoustic signal, by gradually
making it closer or further away from the acoustic signal gener-
ated by participants, could be used to test this hypothesis.
4. Discussion
This paper examined whether a unified framework could ac-
count for both feedback-based and accommodation-based adap-
tation. To do so, we considered three experimental situations
and the Bayesian COSMO model.
Thanks to its close link
between perception and production, we have shown that the
COSMO model can effectively be a relevant framework. Im-
portantly, we proposed a new hypothesis to explain individual
differences in adaptation reported in the literature. Such a uni-
fied framework focusing on the the perception-production link
and explaining inter-individual differences is also relevant for
better understanding speech production impairments as well as
developing intervention methods.
Our proposition has limitations. First, the motor variable
M, at the level of detail of the COSMO framework, does not
distinguish between motor planning and motor programming,
two core concepts in motor control. For instance, in DIVA,
adaptation to altered feedback does not change motor plans but
motor programs. Furthermore, temporal aspects should be de-
veloped to tease apart the temporal dynamics of adaptation at
differing linguistic time-scales, and to take into account the de-
lay between prediction and observation that would elicit more
feedback than accommodation. In addition, the sensory variable
S should also be teased apart, to differentiate between acoustic
and somatosensory dimensions first, as usually done in theories
of motor control; and further, somatosensory information could
be split into proprioceptive and tactile dimensions.
Our proposal should be implemented, and simulated as a
computational model; its ability to account for non-interactive
speech and interactive speech needs to be assessed. Our new hy-
pothesis regarding the continuum between the two extreme sit-
uations provides testable predictions which should be evaluated
in simulations. Manipulating the acoustic signal in a speech-
to-speech synchronization task to make it more or less different
from the speaker’s acoustic signal, be it in pitch, spectral con-
tent or rhythm, could be a first informative experiment to assess
the existence of this continuum and predict the magnitude of
adaptations.
1031

5. Acknowledgments
This project has received financial support from the CNRS
through the MITI interdisciplinary programs (COMODOR
project) and the ANR (EntrainPark project).
6. References
[1] D. W. Purcell and K. G. Munhall, “Adaptive control of vowel for-
mant frequency: Evidence from real-time formant manipulation,”
The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 120, no. 2,
pp. 966–977, 2006.
[2] D. R. Lametti, A. Rochet-Capellan, E. Neufeld, D. M. Shiller, and
D. J. Ostry, “Plasticity in the human speech motor system drives
changes in speech perception,” Journal of Neuroscience, vol. 34,
no. 31, pp. 10 339–10 346, 2014.
[3] V. M. Villacorta, J. S. Perkell, and F. H. Guenther, “Sensorimotor
adaptation to feedback perturbations of vowel acoustics and its
relation to perception,” The Journal of the Acoustical Society of
America, vol. 122, no. 4, pp. 2306–2319, 2007.
[4] M. J. Pickering and S. Garrod, “Toward a mechanistic psychology
of dialogue,” Behavioral and Brain Sciences, vol. 27, no. 2, 2004.
[5] A. R. Bradshaw and C. McGettigan, “Convergence in voice fun-
damental frequency during synchronous speech,” PLOS ONE,
vol. 16, no. 10, p. e0258747, 2021.
[6] J. S. Pardo, A. Urmanche, S. Wilman, and J. Wiener, “Phonetic
convergence across multiple measures and model talkers,” Atten-
tion, Perception, & Psychophysics, vol. 79, no. 2, pp. 637–659,
2017.
[7] E. Saltzman, H. Nam, J. Krivokapic, and L. Goldstein, “A task-
dynamic toolkit for modeling the effects of prosodic structure on
articulation,” in Speech Prosody 2008. ISCA, 2008, pp. 175–184.
[8] F. H. Guenther, S. S. Ghosh, and J. A. Tourville, “Neural mod-
eling and imaging of the cortical interactions underlying syllable
production,” Brain and Language, vol. 96, no. 3, pp. 280–301,
2006.
[9] B. Parrell, V. Ramanarayanan, S. Nagarajan, and J. Houde, “The
FACTS model of speech motor control: Fusing state estimation
and task-based control,” PLOS Computational Biology, vol. 15,
no. 9, p. e1007321, 2019.
[10] J. F. Houde and S. S. Nagarajan, “Speech production as state feed-
back control,” Frontiers in Human Neuroscience, vol. 5, 2011.
[11] N. Nguyen, L. Lancia, L. Huttner, J.-L. Schwartz, and J. Di-
ard, “Listeners’ convergence towards an artificial agent in a joint
phoneme categorization task,” Glossa Psycholinguistics, vol. 3,
no. 1, 2024.
[12] D. F. Kleinschmidt and T. F. Jaeger, “Robust speech perception:
Recognize the familiar, generalize to the similar, and adapt to the
novel.” Psychological Review, vol. 122, no. 2, pp. 148–203, 2015.
[13] M. J. Pickering and S. Garrod, “An integrated theory of language
production and comprehension,” Behavioral and Brain Sciences,
vol. 36, no. 4, pp. 329–347, 2013, number: 4.
[14] J.-L. Schwartz, A. Basirat, L. M´enard, and M. Sato, “The
Perception-for-Action-Control theory (PACT): A perceptuo-
motor theory of speech perception,” Journal of Neurolinguistics,
vol. 25, no. 5, pp. 336–354, 2012.
[15] L. Ramig, A. Halpern, J. Spielman, C. Fox, and K. Freeman,
“Speech treatment in parkinson’s disease: Randomized controlled
trial (RCT),” Movement Disorders, vol. 33, no. 11, pp. 1777–
1791, 2018.
[16] M. Bakhtiar, T. W. Y. Yeung, and A. Choi, “The application of
neuronavigated rtms of the supplementary motor area and rhyth-
mic speech training for stuttering intervention,” International
Journal of Language & Communication Disorders, 2024.
[17] C. Arnold, J. Gehrig, S. Gispert, C. Seifried, and C. A. Kell, “Path-
omechanisms and compensatory efforts related to Parkinsonian
speech,” NeuroImage: Clinical, vol. 4, pp. 82–97, 2014.
[18] R. Laurent, M.-L. Barnaud, J.-L. Schwartz, P. Bessi`ere, and J. Di-
ard, “The complementary roles of auditory and motor information
evaluated in a Bayesian perceptuo-motor model of speech percep-
tion.” Psychological Review, vol. 124, no. 5, pp. 572–602, 2017.
[19] C. Moulin-Frier, R. Laurent, P. Bessi`ere, J. L. Schwartz, and J. Di-
ard, “Adverse conditions improve distinguishability of auditory,
motor, and perceptuo-motor theories of speech perception: An
exploratory Bayesian modelling study,” Language and Cognitive
Processes, vol. 27, no. 7, pp. 1240–1263, 2012.
[20] T. A. Burnett, M. B. Freedland, C. R. Larson, and T. C. Hain,
“Voice f0 responses to manipulations in pitch feedback,” The
Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 103, no. 6, pp.
3153–3161, 1998.
[21] P. Howell and A. Archer, “Susceptibility to the effects of delayed
auditory feedback,” Perception & Psychophysics, vol. 36, no. 3,
pp. 296–302, 1984.
[22] K. S. Kim, J. L. Gaines, B. Parrell, V. Ramanarayanan, S. S. Na-
garajan, and J. F. Houde, “Mechanisms of sensorimotor adapta-
tion in a hierarchical state feedback control model of speech,”
PLOS Computational Biology, vol. 19, no. 7, p. e1011244, 2023.
[23] B. J. Kr¨oger, J. Kannampuzha, and C. Neuschaefer-Rube, “To-
wards a neurocomputational model of speech production and per-
ception,” Speech Communication, vol. 51, no. 9, pp. 793–809,
2009.
[24] P. Perrier, L. Ma, and Y. Payan, “Modeling the production of
VCV sequences via the inversion of a biomechanical model of
the tongue,” in Interspeech 2005.
ISCA, 2005, pp. 1041–1044.
[25] B. Parrell, A. C. Lammert, G. Ciccarelli, and T. F. Quatieri, “Cur-
rent models of speech motor control: A control-theoretic overview
of architectures and properties,” The Journal of the Acoustical So-
ciety of America, vol. 145, no. 3, pp. 1456–1481, 2019.
[26] J. A. Tourville, K. J. Reilly, and F. H. Guenther, “Neural mecha-
nisms underlying auditory feedback control of speech,” NeuroIm-
age, vol. 39, no. 3, pp. 1429–1443, 2008.
[27] J. Harrington, S. Palethorpe, and C. I. Watson, “Does the queen
speak the queen’s english?” Nature, vol. 408, no. 6815, pp. 927–
928, 2000.
[28] S. D. Goldinger, “Echoes of echoes? An episodic theory of lexical
access,” Psychological Review, vol. 105, pp. 251–279, 1998.
[29] J.-F. Patri, P. Perrier, J.-L. Schwartz, and J. Diard, “What drives
the perceptual change resulting from speech motor adaptation?
Evaluation of hypotheses in a Bayesian modeling framework,”
PLOS Computational Biology, vol. 14, no. 1, p. e1005942, 2018,
number: 1.
[30] M. Sato, K. Grabski, M. Garnier, L. Granjon, J.-L. Schwartz, and
N. Nguyen, “Converging toward a common speech code: imita-
tive and perceptuo-motor recalibration processes in speech pro-
duction,” Frontiers in Psychology, vol. 4, 2013.
[31] M. Sp¨ath, I. Aichert, D. Timmann, A. O. Ceballos-Baumann,
E. Wagner-Sonntag, and W. Ziegler, “The role of the basal ganglia
and cerebellum in adaptation to others’ speech rate and rhythm: A
study of patients with Parkinson’s disease and cerebellar degener-
ation,” Cortex, vol. 157, pp. 81–98, 2022.
[32] H. Giles and T. Ogay, “Communication accommodation theory,”
in Explaining Communication: Contemporary Theories and Ex-
emplars, B. B. Whaley and W. Samter, Eds.
Routledge, 2007,
pp. 293–310.
[33] A. R. Bradshaw, D. R. Lametti, D. M. Shiller, K. Jasmin,
R. Huang, and C. McGettigan, “Speech motor adaptation during
synchronous and metronome-timed speech.” Journal of Experi-
mental Psychology: General, vol. 152, no. 12, pp. 3476–3489,
2023.
[34] J. Cannon, “Expectancy-based rhythmic entrainment as continu-
ous Bayesian inference,” PLOS Computational Biology, vol. 17,
no. 6, p. e1009025, 2021.
[35] M. F. Assaneo, P. Ripoll´es, J. Orpella, W. M. Lin, R. De Diego-
Balaguer, and D. Poeppel, “Spontaneous synchronization to
speech reveals neural mechanisms facilitating language learning,”
Nature Neuroscience, vol. 22, no. 4, pp. 627–632, 2019.
1032

