warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Leveraging LLMs for Written to Spoken Style Data Transformation to
Enhance Spoken Dialog State Tracking
Haris Gulzar1, Monikka Roslianna Busto1, Akiko Masaki1, Takeharu Eda1, Ryo Masumura2
1Software Innovation Center, NTT, Japan
2Human Informatics Laboratories, NTT, Japan
(haris.gulzar, monikka.busto, akiko.masaki, takeharu.eda)@ntt.com,
masumura.ryo@lab.ntt.co.jp
Abstract
Dialog State Tracking (DST) is an important part of Task-
Oriented Dialog (TOD) systems, as it needs to navigate the
complex human conversational flow to accomplish a task. Most
TOD systems are trained on written-style text data, and their
performance plunges when deployed in spoken scenarios due to
natural disfluencies and human-speech recognition errors. La-
beled spoken-style TOD data is limited because of the high data
collection cost and privacy concerns. As Large Language Mod-
els (LLMs) emerge as a tool for synthetic text data generation,
we explored their capability to generate spoken-style text-based
TOD data. Through meticulously crafting LLM prompts, our
generated labeled spoken style TOD data improved the abso-
lute Joint Goal Accuracy (JGA) by 3.39% and relative JGA by
11.6%, for dedicated DST models.
In this work, we show-
case our divide-and-conquer-based data generation strategies
and DST training to improve the performance of task-specific
dialog models.
Index Terms: Spoken Dialog Systems, Task-Oriented Dialog
Systems, Data Generation, Spoken Dialog State Tracking
1. Introduction
The advancements in Natural Language Processing (NLP) have
led dialog models to achieve impressive performance on various
tasks like reasoning-based question answering [1], recommen-
dation systems [2], and performing tasks on the user’s behalf
through Task-Oriented Dialog (TOD) systems [3]. Dialog State
Tracking (DST) is a central task in TOD systems that detects
the user’s intention, collects the relevant information, and keeps
track of the dialog history in form of a dialog state, in order to
take the next appropriate action [4]. Generally, TOD models
are pre-trained on a large corpus of unlabeled or pseudo-labeled
text data and then fine-tuned for a specific task using labeled text
data [4, 5]. However, deploying such models in spoken scenar-
ios poses unique challenges like differences in spoken and writ-
ten style, and task mishandling because of speech recognition
errors under environmental noise [6]. Moreover, speech disflu-
encies and uninventable complex flow of the spoken conversa-
tion comprising of multiple turns and incomplete information in
a single turn requires additional consideration to infer the cor-
rect and complete information from the user’s utterance [7].
Adapting text-based TOD models to spoken scenarios re-
quires dialog speech and fine-grained task labels, which is an
expensive approach and raises privacy concerns linked with hu-
man speech data. Some works have tried to tackle this prob-
lem with synthesized speech-paired data to adapt the models
to spoken scenarios [8, 9]. However, synthesized speech lacks
natural disfluencies and indirect reasoning occurring in human
speech [10], and it is also a relatively expensive approach re-
quiring significant computation to generate dense speech sig-
nals. This motivated us to explore the feasibility of text-based
spoken style data generation as it is a significantly more eco-
nomical approach than speech synthesis or human-labeled data
collection.
As the generalization capabilities of Large Language Mod-
els (LLMs) improve, they are also utilized for text data syn-
thesis using few-shot prompts [11]. Although a synthetic data
generation approach has been utilized for TOD data generation
[12, 13], the capability of LLMs is yet to be tested for spoken-
style data generation. In this work, we exploited the generative
capability of LLMs to generate spoken-style speech transcripts
in text format to use as additional training data for adapting
task-based text dialog models in spoken scenarios. There are
multifold benefits to utilizing LLMs for generating dialog data.
Firstly, recent LLMs have a strong reasoning ability to gen-
erate large-scale data by using just a few reference examples.
Furthermore, as the context size of LLMs has significantly in-
creased, it is possible to generate long dialogs with complex
dialog flows. Lastly, synthesizing speech data is at least 8X
more expensive than text-based speech transcript generation
[14]. This motivated us to explore the viability of spoken-style
text data generation to bridge the gap between spoken and writ-
ten dialog systems.
When beginning to generate spoken-style TOD data, utiliz-
ing the existing written-style TOD data is an economical ap-
proach as TOD fine-grained labels can be utilized as it is, while
transforming the style of corresponding dialog utterances. In
our experiments, we broke down the spoken-style TOD data
generation pipeline into two parts; (1) the part of the dialog
requiring a change in style from written to spoken and uti-
lizing the existing TOD labels, and (2) the part that requires
the generation of new data having multi-turn dialog along with
TOD labels, to collect information from the user. We combine
the generated data to form a final multi-domain and multi-turn
spoken TOD data to use for the training of a small language
model-based TOD system. We designed various prompts and
demonstrated how LLM can be leveraged to gradually intro-
duce spoken attributes in written-style data using a step-by-step
approach, to generate spoken-style text TOD data.
Our LLM synthesized spoken-style TOD data led the TOD
model to achieve significant enhancement in the dialog un-
derstanding task, with 3.39% absolute and 11.6% relative im-
provement in Joint Goal Accuracy (JGA). Our work proves that
LLM-generated speech transcripts are viable alternatives to ex-
pensive labeled data collection or TTS-based approaches.
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
1743
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2681

LLM
LLM
I want to book a hotel for three people.
I want to book a place to stay for me and 
my parents.
Well, I want to book a, umm place to stay 
for me umm and my parents.
Well, I want to book a, umm palace to stay 
for me umm and my peasants.
Cross Turn 
Dialog
Sure, It’s 3. 4. 1
3. 4. 1, please go on 
9. 7. 1…
9 7 1、and
Oh, sorry, it is 9 7 2.
So, your ID is 3 4 1 9 7 2.
Please tell me your ID.
Query Style Transfer
Multiturn Query Generation
Written Style
TOD Data
Prompt1
Instruction
<Spoken Style
Utterance Examples>
Context
Prompt2
Instruction
<Spoken Style
Multiturn Examples>
Context
ASR Error
Simulation
Semantic 
Reasoning
Spoken Style
Transfer
Profile Database
Spoken Style
TOD Reference
Spoken Style
TOD Data
Chain of Thoughts
(CoT)
Query
Generation
Target: ID, Name, Email, Phone
Style 
Transferred 
Dialog
Cross Turn 
Generated 
Dialog
Figure 1: The overall flow of the data generation pipeline. Data generation is divided into two steps, (1) style transfer from written
dialogs while keeping the TOD labels intact and (2) generating the new segment of dialog with multi-turn profile information collection
from the user.
2. Task-Oriented Dialog (TOD) Systems
TOD systems are specialized dialog models designed to assist
users in completing specific tasks while collecting task-specific
information through various turns of dialog [3]. Among var-
ious approaches to designing these systems, two mainstream
approaches are the end-to-end TOD approach [15] and modular
TOD approach[16]. The modular architecture of TOD systems
includes several key components of which the first one is Dia-
log State Tracking (DST) as a Spoken Language Understanding
(SLU) module, which interprets the user’s input, extracts rele-
vant information, and maintains the context in the form of dia-
log state [17]. The DST module is followed by a policy mod-
ule and a natural language generation (NLG) module to gen-
erate the system’s responses. Recently with the advancements
in LLMs, prompt-based end-to-end TOD methods are proposed
[18], however, we believe that fine-grained dialog understand-
ing is essential for scalable and reliable systems. DST mod-
ule acts as a steering module for the dialog parsing [19], while
for reasoning, next action policy, and response generation, a
specialized LLM can be combined with the DST module [19].
Such control is even more important in spoken scenarios where
an LLM-based end-to-end approach can steer the dialog in an
unintended direction.
2.1. Dialog State Tracking (DST)
In TOD systems, DST plays a vital role in the user’s dialog
parsing. DST mainly infers three components from the user’s
query i.e. user-intent, slot-type, and slot-value. Conventional
DST methods rely on extractive approaches, meaning they only
extract the key values that are present in the user’s utterance.
Such models fail on queries like, “I want to book a place to
stay for me and my parents.”. Here the extractive approach is
unable to predict the user intent as a book-hotel. Therefore,
recently generative-based DST approaches have been employed
that leverage the reasoning capability of small language model-
based backbones [20].
DST becomes an even more challenging task in spoken sce-
narios, as the spoken dialog utterance has many disfluencies,
indirect information requiring reasoning, and speech misrecog-
nition errors. The following example shows DST labels for an
indirect reasoning case in a spoken style query.
Query: ”I want to book a place to stay for me and my parents.”
user-intent: book-hotel, (slot-type, slot-value): (people, 3)
Moreover, providing slot information in multiple utterances
requires proper tracking as illustrated in the bottom of Figure1.
DST module needs to be adapted to these differences from writ-
ten to spoken dialog systems. 2 shows an example of a dialog
between a user and a system to accomplish hotel booking tasks.
The TOD system infers the intent of the user, corresponding
slots, and their slot values. The correct intent, slot, and value
prediction throughout the flow of the dialog leading to the com-
pletion of the task implies that the system has successfully fin-
ished its task.
3. Strategies for Spoken TOD Adaptation
Two primary modules in TOD systems need consideration for
spoken scenarios: the speech recognition module and the DST
module. The former is responsible for converting human speech
into a text transcript, while the latter maintains the conversa-
tional context and guides the conversation in the targeted direc-
tion to accomplish a specific task. Several studies have focused
on improving each of these components to enhance the overall
performance of TOD systems in spoken scenarios.
Text to Speech (TTS) Synthesis: As the labeled TOD data
with corresponding speech is limited, the performance of TOD
models reduces significantly when deployed in spoken scenar-
ios. Researchers have made significant efforts to make TOD
1744

Dialogue System
User
Hi, I‘d like to book a place to stay.
Sure, where would you like to book a hotel?
I would like to book near Tokyo SkyTree.
How many people would you like to make a reservation for?
I want to make reservation for me and my parents.
Your reservation is complete.
hotel_book
Dialogue State Tracking
ask_place
inform_place
ask_people
inform_people 
inform_success
Intent/Policy
Slot: Slot Value
-
-
Place: Asakusa
-
No. of people: three
Figure 2: Dialog state tracking module in task-oriented dialog
systems, predicting the state of dialog to complete a task.
models robust enough to handle the variability and complexity
of human speech by generating end-to-end dialog data by us-
ing TTS approach [21]. However, the synthesized speech data
is not a reliable surrogate for human speech, as it falls short
of replicating the diversity in human speech expression [10].
Therefore, other approaches need to be considered for robust
spoken TOD models.
Speech Recognition Error Correction: Another area of
research has concentrated on the interface between the speech
recognition module and the DST module. This involves map-
ping spoken language to written language, an approach com-
monly referred to as speech error correction [22, 23]. The goal
is to convert the spoken transcript into a written form that can
be more easily processed by the existing text-based DST mod-
ule. However, this method tends to strip away essential seman-
tic information, as the transformation from spoken to written
language can omit the subtleties and contextual cues present in
natural speech. For example, the utterance “I want to book a
hotel for three people” in written style is likely to be changed
to an indirect dialog style in spoken scenarios like “I want to
book a place to stay for me and my parents”. Correctly infer-
ring the intent as hotel-booking and slot as three-people requires
the underlying text model to be trained on a spoken reasoning
style.
Text-Based Augmentation:
To reduce dependence on
speech-based data, researchers have explored text-based aug-
mentation techniques, such as rule-based paraphrasing and
slot augmentation from ontology [23, 24].
While these ap-
proaches introduce spoken-style variations in dialog utterances,
they don’t add spoken-style indirect reasoning and the complex
multi-turn information collection in TOD.
Our work utilizes LLMs to synthesize spoken-style TOD
data while not only synthesizing the spoken-style semantic rea-
soning at the utterance level but also incorporating the multiturn
slot acquisition part of the dialog. In the following section, we
will explain the core of TOD systems, their central component
DST and it’s adaption in spoken scenarios.
4. Proposed Spoken TOD Data Synthesis
LLMs have demonstrated an extraordinary ability to generate
synthetic data in various domains, including TOD [25]. How-
ever, in spoken scenarios, TOD doesn’t only need turn-based
spoken style utterance but also includes aspects of indirect rea-
soning and multi-turn slot acquisition, as Figure 3 shows the
multi-domain TOD example from a recently proposed spoken
TOD benchmark SpokenWOZ [7]. Each dialog section has its
Hi, I want to, amm, book a hotel.
What location you want to book?
…
I also, aah, want to book, a Taxi.
When do you want to leave?
…
Umm, I guess that’s it for now.
Thank you.
Hotel
Taxi
Can I ask your ID?
Yes, My name ID is three, nine, …
…
Profile
Can I ask your name?
Sure, My name is J. Ohh. etch. N. John.
Profile
…
Domains: Hotel, Taxi, Profile
Place
People
Days
…
From
To
Time
…
ID
Name
Multi-turn Slot
Multi-turn Slot
TOD
Labels
Figure 3: Dialog structure of the reference spoken-style TOD
data SpokenWOZ [7]. The Profile domain requires a multi-turn
dialog for a single slot collection.
corresponding TOD labels, including intent, slot, and values.
The fully labeled TOD dialog file becomes excessively large
and is not possible to be transformed in spoken style in an end-
to-end way using LLM prompting. In this work, we employed
a divide-and-conquer approach to break down the spoken TOD
generation in the form of Prompt1 and Prompt2.
4.1. Query Style Transfer (Prompt1):
As the non-profile domains of the reference spoken-style data
share the same structure as the written-style data like Multi-
WOZ, it is possible to borrow the TOD labels as it is, while
style-transferring the dialog utterances to spoken-style. After
close analysis of the human-labeled benchmark SpokenWOZ
[7], we listed three main properties of spoken-style dialogs that
need to be simulated in synthesized dialog i.e., semantic rea-
soning, the addition of disfluencies due to filler words, and sim-
ulating speech recognition errors. We observed that LLM out-
puts were inconsistent in simulating all scenarios in the synthe-
sized data. Especially, LLM failed to add semantic reasoning
scenarios consistently, and the speech recognition errors were
possibly corrected by LLM post-processing filters before gen-
erating the final output. Having failed to fully style-transfer the
whole dialog even after providing up to 4 examples in the few-
shot prompt format, we tried the Chain of Thoughts (CoT) [26]
approach, and it consistently simulated all three properties of
spoken-style utterances.
Chain of Thoughts: We employed CoT prompting to add
semantic reasoning, spoken disfluencies through filler words,
and speech recognition errors incrementally.
In spoken dia-
log utterances, semantic reasoning occurs in three ways e.g.
indirect information, time-based reasoning, and mathematical
reasoning. We picked two examples for each scenario and in-
cluded them in the LLM prompt. To simulate speech disfluen-
cies by adding filler words we gave two representative exam-
ples to LLM and relied on its capability to generate dialog with
a similar style. Lastly, for speech misrecognition, we picked
another two representative examples from reference transcripts
with recognition errors and asked LLM to add at least two
speech recognition errors in each utterance.
4.2. Query Generation (Prompt2)
The multi-turn slot value acquisition dialog data doesn’t exist
in written dialogs, hence the same principle of query transfer
doesn’t apply. Instead, a new query generation approach is re-
1745

Table 1: Statistics of written-style TOD data MultiWOZ, Spoken
style TOD data SpokenWOZ, and our LLM-generated TOD data
GenWOZ. S: Semantics, N: ASR Noise, T: Multi-turn slots
Data
Domain
Turns
Cross
Slots
Count
Turns
MultiWOZ
7
115,424
0
56,628
SpokenWOZ
8
203,074
16,870
33,600
GenWOZ(S)
8
115,424
0
56,628
GenWOZ(S+N)
8
115,424
0
56,628
GenWOZ
8
162,614
35,746
75,504
(S+N+T )
quired. [27] introduces a query retrieval approach for counterar-
gument generation for a given argument, with a few-shot exam-
ple in LLM. As in the case of multi-turn profile slot acquisition,
we have target slot values from the ontology of reference Spo-
kenWOZ [7] data. We employed the query generation approach
by giving a few examples of a multiturn dialog and asking LLM
to generate the corresponding dialog.
query = (t1, q1), (t2, q2), (tx, ...)
qx = LLM(context, query, instruction)
Existing written-style benchmark, MultiWOZ[28] has seven
domains i.e. Train, Taxi, Hotel, Restaurant, Attraction, Hos-
pital, Police, and the SpokenWOZ has an additional domain,
Profile, that requires multiturn dialog for single slot collection
as listed in Table 1. As this dialog also has fine-grained la-
bels of intent, slots, spans, and turn IDs, we employed a tabular
data generation [29] approach, where LLM generates the dialog
query along with all corresponding TOD labels.
In this work, we used LLaMA3.1[30] for data generation,
a 405B parameters model, the highest performing open-source
LLM at the time of data generation. As illustrated in Figure
1, after various trails of end-to-end and a few-shot prompting,
we succeeded in synthesizing data in two parts utilizing CoT
prompting and query generation. We combine the synthesized
data with the existing reference data SpokenWOZ [28] and
refer to our data as GenWOZ. The full data generation took 86
hours with LLaMA3.1 running on 8x NVIDIA H100 GPUs.
Table 2: Evaluation of different TOD benchmarks for Joint Goal
Accuracy (JGA) using UBAR and ChatGPT. S: Semantics, N:
ASR Noise, T: Multi-turn slots from Profile domain.
Method
Training
JGA
Dialogs
w cross-turn
w/o cross-turn
MultiWOZ
9438
-
56.0
SpokenWOZ Baseline
4200
23.96
29.13
MultiWOZ + SpokenWOZ
13638
24.29
30.07
Prompt1
GenWOZ(S)
13638
24.42
31.77
Prompt1
GenWOZ(S+N)
13638
25.03
32.32
Prompt1
GenWOZ
13638
25.90
32.52
+Prompt2
(S+N+T )
ChatGPT (GPT4o-mini)
-
10.92
13.47
ChatGPT (GPT4o)
-
11.14
13.94
4.3. Training of the Dialog State Tracking Model
The newly generated synthetic data, designed to mirror the nu-
ances of natural spoken language, is utilized to train a text-based
DST model, UBAR [31]. UBAR is a GPT2-based language
model trained on the written-style TOD task. The UBAR is
finetuned with the default setting of UBAR, using AdamW op-
timizer with an initial learning rate of 1−3. Fine-tuning UBAR
for 25 epochs takes around 8 NVIDIA A100 GPU hours.
5. Evaluation of the Model
Recently, the SpokenWOZ [7] benchmark for spoken task-
oriented dialog systems was released, which is the spoken ver-
sion of the famous text-based benchmark, MultiWOZ [28]. As
this benchmark is the first of its type, there is a huge perfor-
mance gap between spoken dialog systems’ accuracy compared
to the written style dialog benchmark.
5.1. Experimental Results
Table 2 lists the results of JGA for our experiments on the Spo-
kenWOZ [7] baseline. As explained in the earlier sections, we
divided the data generation pipeline into two parts by utilizing
Prompt1 and Prompt2. Evaluation of Prompt1 is further divided
into two parts i.e. semantics of the dialog which includes rea-
soning and spoken style and the speech recognition noise sim-
ulation. Our experiments result on the UBAR model show that
adding semantics alone in the transformed spoken style data
achieved nearly 2.64% improvement in JGA in the case of with-
out predicting the cross-turn label. Our experiments show that
adding speech recognition errors in generated data improved the
downstream DST model performance by 0.55%.
We then performed experiments by combining the data gen-
erated with Prompt1 and Prompt2. As the experimental results
show, it further improved the JGA performance by 0.87% in
the case when TOD model needs to predict the cross-turn la-
bel. We also compared the performance of the task-specific
trained TOD model with the popular LLM framework ChatGPT
using the TOD template-filling prompting. It is worth noting
that ChatGPT struggled to understand a complex task like DST
and delivered much lower performance on JGA accuracy. This
shows that small and specialized models trained for a specific
task perform better than a large general-purpose LLM. Overall,
our experiments show that our proposed approach leads to an
overall 3.39% absolute performance improvement and 11.6%
relative improvements in JGA compared to the baseline.
6. Conclusion
Our work addresses the challenge of adapting text-based TOD
systems for spoken scenarios.
We have demonstrated that
LLMs can improve the accuracy of spoken dialog systems by
generating task-specific data. We also confirmed that training
the model on noisy data that simulates the noise from the ac-
tual scenarios leads to improved performance. We also demon-
strated how we can break the data generation tasks into smaller
tasks for long dialog data generation like TOD. Overall, by gen-
erating spoken data using LLMs, the TOD model achieved a
3.39% absolute and 11.6% relative performance improvements
in JGA. In the future, we plan to further increase the generated
data size to develop more robust spoken TOD systems.
1746

7. References
[1] X. Z. Tiesunlong Shen, Jin Wang and E. Cambria, “Reasoning
with trees: Faithful question answering over knowledge graph,”
31st International Conference on Computational Linguistics, p.
3138–3157, 2025.
[2] B. S. Arkadeep Acharya and N. Onoe, “Llm based generation of
item-description for recommendation system,” Proceedings of the
17th ACM Conference on Recommender Systems (RecSys ’23),
vol. 77, p. 1204–1207, 2023.
[3] P. L. Y. L. D. Y. Zijun Liu, Yanzhe Zhang, “A dynamic llm-
powered agent network for task-oriented agent collaboration,”
First Conference on Language Modeling, 2024.
[4] S. S. Vevake Balaraman and B. Magnini, “Recent neural methods
on dialogue state tracking for task-oriented dialogue systems: A
survey,” Proceedings of the 22nd Annual Meeting of the Special
Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, p. 239–251, 2021.
[5] E. M. A. G. D. C. Y.-A. L. Yixuan Su, Lei Shu and Y. Zhang,
“Multi-task pre-training for plug-and-play task-oriented dialogue
system,” Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Associ-
ation for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), p.
4661–4676, 2022.
[6] H. R. J.-U. B. Jaeseok Yoon, Seunghyun Hwang and K.-E. Kim,
“Adapting text-based dialogue state tracker for spoken dialogues,”
Proceedings of The Eleventh Dialog System Technology Chal-
lenge, p. 81–88, 2023.
[7] H. G. Y. W. T.-E. L.-Y. D. H. L. R. Y. F. H. Shuzheng Si, Wen-
tao Ma and Y. Li, “Spokenwoz: a large-scale speech-text bench-
mark for spoken task-oriented dialogue agents,” Proceedings of
the 37th International Conference on Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems (NIPS ’23), p. 39088–39118, 2023.
[8] R. Sharma, S. Kim, T. Lˆe, D. Lazar, A. Shrivastava, K. An,
P. Kansal, L. Sari, O. Kalinli, and M. Seltzer, “Improving spo-
ken semantic parsing using synthetic data from large generative
models,” pp. 71–75, 2024.
[9] W. L. Y. K. J. Lee, Y. Jeon and G. G. Lee, “Exploring the via-
bility of synthetic audio data for audio-based dialogue state track-
ing,” 2023 IEEE Automatic Speech Recognition and Understand-
ing Workshop (ASRU), pp. 1–8, 2023.
[10] H. Soltau, I. Shafran, M. Wang, A. Rastogi, W. Han, and Y. Cao,
“DSTC-11: Speech aware task-oriented dialog modeling track,”
in Proceedings of The Eleventh Dialog System Technology Chal-
lenge.
Prague, Czech Republic: Association for Computational
Linguistics, Sep. 2023, pp. 226–234.
[11] Y. Qiu and Y. Jin, “A method for synthesizing ontology-based tex-
tual design datasets: Evaluating the potential of large language
model in domain-specific dataset generation,” ASME. J. Mech.
Des., vol. 147, no. 4, p. 041707, 2025.
[12] S. U. L. B. Steindl, S., “Generating synthetic dialogues from
prompts to improve task-oriented dialogue systems,” Lecture
Notes in Computer Science, vol. 14236, 2023.
[13] U. S. Sebastian Steindl and B. Ludwig, “Controlled data aug-
mentation for training task-oriented dialog systems with low re-
source data,” Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Pattern-based
Approaches to NLP in the Age of Deep Learning, p. 92–102, 2023.
[14] “Open-ai
model
pricing,”
https://platform.openai.com/docs/
pricing.
[15] T. Hong, O.-W. Kwon, and Y.-K. Kim, “End-to-end task-oriented
dialog system through template slot value generation,” in Inter-
speech 2020, 2020, pp. 3900–3904.
[16] Q. Lu, B. Ramasubramanian, and R. Poovendran, “EDC: Effec-
tive and efficient dialog comprehension for dialog state tracking,”
in Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of the North American
Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Hu-
man Language Technologies (Volume 1: Long Papers), K. Duh,
H. Gomez, and S. Bethard, Eds.
Mexico City, Mexico: Associ-
ation for Computational Linguistics, Jun. 2024, pp. 4151–4165.
[17] T.-W. W. B.-H. J. Ruolin Su, Jingfeng Yang, “Choice fusion as
knowledge for zero-shot dialogue state tracking,” in ICASSP 2023
- 2023 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2023, pp. 1–5.
[18] H.-D. Xu, X.-L. Mao, P. Yang, F. Sun, and H. Huang, “Rethink-
ing task-oriented dialogue systems: From complex modularity to
zero-shot autonomous agent,” in Proceedings of the 62nd Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume
1: Long Papers).
Bangkok, Thailand: Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics, Aug. 2024, pp. 2748–2763.
[19] N. Wagner and S. Ultes, “On the controllability of large language
models for dialogue interaction,” in Proceedings of the 25th An-
nual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Di-
alogue, T. Kawahara, V. Demberg, S. Ultes, K. Inoue, S. Mehri,
D. Howcroft, and K. Komatani, Eds.
Kyoto, Japan: Association
for Computational Linguistics, Sep. 2024, pp. 216–221.
[20] X. Li, Q. Li, W. Wu, and Q. Yin, “Generation and extraction com-
bined dialogue state tracking with hierarchical ontology integra-
tion,” in Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Meth-
ods in Natural Language Processing, M.-F. Moens, X. Huang,
L. Specia, and S. W.-t. Yih, Eds. Online and Punta Cana, Domini-
can Republic: Association for Computational Linguistics, Nov.
2021, pp. 2241–2249.
[21] Y. E. B. F.-L. M. R. L´eo Jacqmin, Lucas Druart and V. Vielzeuf,
“Olisia: a cascade system for spoken dialogue state tracking,”
Proceedings of The Eleventh Dialog System Technology Chal-
lenge, p. 95–104, 2023.
[22] B. W. C. Z.-Y. Z. C. P. J. J. K. H. L. Ridong Jiang, Wei Shi,
“Speech-aware multi-domain dialogue state generation with asr
error correction modules,” Proceedings of The Eleventh Dialog
System Technology Challenge, p. 105–112, 2023.
[23] J. Yoon, S. Hwang, H. Ran, J.-U. Bang, and K.-E. Kim, “Adapting
text-based dialogue state tracker for spoken dialogues,” in Pro-
ceedings of The Eleventh Dialog System Technology Challenge,
Y.-N. Chen, P. Crook, M. Galley, S. Ghazarian, C. Gunasekara,
R. Gupta, B. Hedayatnia, S. Kottur, S. Moon, and C. Zhang, Eds.
Prague, Czech Republic: Association for Computational Linguis-
tics, Sep. 2023, pp. 81–88.
[24] B. Peng, C. Zhu, M. Zeng, and J. Gao, “Data augmentation for
spoken language understanding via pretrained language models,”
in Interspeech, 2021.
[25] A. Kulkarni, B.-H. Tseng, J. R. A. Moniz, D. Piraviperumal,
H. Yu, and S. Bhargava, “SynthDST: Synthetic data is all you
need for few-shot dialog state tracking,” in Proceedings of the
18th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), Y. Graham
and M. Purver, Eds.
St. Julian’s, Malta: Association for Com-
putational Linguistics, Mar. 2024, pp. 1988–2001.
[26] J. Wei, X. Wang, D. Schuurmans, M. Bosma, B. Ichter, F. Xia,
E. H. Chi, Q. V. Le, and D. Zhou, “Chain-of-thought prompting
elicits reasoning in large language models,” ser. NIPS ’22.
Red
Hook, NY, USA: Curran Associates Inc., 2022.
[27] J. M. Y. L. J. N. J. L. A. B. K. G. K. B. H. M.-W. C. Zhuyun Dai,
Vincent Y. Zhao, “Promptagator: Few-shot dense retrieval from 8
examples,” in International Conference on Learning Representa-
tions (ICLR), 2023.
[28] B.-H. T. I. C. S. U. O. R. M. G. Paweł Budzianowski, Tsung-
Hsien Wen, “Multiwoz - a large-scale multi-domain wizard-of-
oz dataset for task-oriented dialogue modelling,” Proceedings of
the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, p. 5016–5, 2018.
[29] M. Tornqvist, J.-D. Zucker, T. Fauvel, N. Lambert, M. Berthelot,
and A. Movschin, “A text-to-tabular approach to generate syn-
thetic patient data using llms,” ArXiv, vol. abs/2412.05153.
[30] “Llama models and tools,” https://llama.meta.com/.
[31] Y. Yang, Y. Li, and X. Quan, “Ubar: Towards fully end-to-end
task-oriented dialog system with gpt-2,” Proceedings of the AAAI
Conference on Artificial Intelligence, vol. 35, pp. 14 230–14 238,
05 2021.
1747

