warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Vision-Integrated High-Quality Neural Speech Coding
Yao Guo, Yang Ai∗, Rui-Chen Zheng, Hui-Peng Du, Xiao-Hang Jiang, Zhen-Hua Ling
National Engineering Research Center of Speech and Language Information Processing, University
of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, P. R. China
guoyao1917@mail.ustc.edu.cn, yangai@ustc.edu.cn, zhengruichen@mail.ustc.edu.cn,
redmist@mail.ustc.edu.cn, jiang xiaohang@mail.ustc.edu.cn, zhling@ustc.edu.cn
Abstract
This paper proposes a novel vision-integrated neural speech
codec (VNSC), which aims to enhance speech coding quality
by leveraging visual modality information. In VNSC, the image
analysis-synthesis module extracts visual features from lip im-
ages, while the feature fusion module facilitates interaction be-
tween the image analysis-synthesis module and the speech cod-
ing module, transmitting visual information to assist the speech
coding process. Depending on whether visual information is
available during the inference stage, the feature fusion module
integrates visual features into the speech coding module using
either explicit integration or implicit distillation strategies. Ex-
perimental results confirm that integrating visual information
effectively improves the quality of the decoded speech and en-
hances the noise robustness of the neural speech codec, without
increasing the bitrate.
Index Terms: neural speech coding, visual information, feature
fusion
1. Introduction
Speech coding aims to reduce the bitrate of speech signals while
preserving speech quality, which is a fundamental step in ap-
plications like speech communication and transmission. Con-
ventional speech coding methods have evolved from extensive
manual efforts and decades of research [1–4], and have been
applied in various practical scenarios. However, they still face
challenges such as limited speech quality and high bitrates.
Recently, neural speech coding has attracted significant at-
tention. Neural speech codecs operate in an end-to-end train-
able framework, leveraging neural networks to jointly design
and train the encoder, quantizer and decoder. SoundStream [5]
represents an early effort in this domain, employing an en-
coder to directly process the speech waveform, a residual vector
quantizer (RVQ) [6] for discretization, and a decoder to recon-
struct the speech waveform. Subsequent approaches, such as
Encodec [7] and HiFi-Codec [8], can be viewed as variants of
SoundStream, incorporating more advanced training and quan-
tization strategies.
To avoid direct waveform modeling and
improve generation efficiency, APCodec [9] employs a paral-
lel encoding and decoding approach for speech amplitude and
phase spectra. More recently, MDCTCodec [10] has adopted
a simpler single-path structure and utilized the modified dis-
crete cosine transform (MDCT) spectrum as the modeling tar-
get, achieving higher generation efficiency while maintaining
high decoded speech quality.
*Corresponding author.
This work was funded by Anhui
Province Major Science and Technology Research Project under Grant
S2023Z20004, the National Nature Science Foundation of China under
Grant 62301521 and the Anhui Provincial Natural Science Foundation
under Grant 2308085QF200.
Image 
Analyzer
Image 
Synthesizer
Visual Feature
Lip Image 
Sequence
Synthesized 
Lip Image 
Sequence
MDCT
Speech 
Encoder
Feature Fusion Module
Quantizer
Speech Feature
Visual Information Flow
Image Analysis-Synthesis Module
Discrete Token
Speech 
Decoder
IMDCT
Raw Speech
Decoded Speech
Raw Speech 
MDCT Spectrum
Decoded Speech 
MDCT Spectrum
Encoded 
Bimodal Feature
Quantized 
Bimodal 
Feature
Speech Coding Module
Figure 1: An overview of the proposed VNSC.
The aforementioned neural speech codecs rely solely on the
speech modality during training, and the model is optimized us-
ing frames with a very short window shift [7–10] (e.g., 5 ms∼10
ms), which inevitably leads to local optima. Intuitively, the de-
coded speech would be smoother and more coherent if long-
term cues were introduced to the codec. Ahasan et al. proposed
DMCodec [11], which incorporates a language model (LM) and
self-supervised speech model (SM) into a nerual speech codec.
It has shown that the semantic and contextual information con-
tained in the LM and SM can enhance the timbre of the decoded
speech. This indicates that leveraging information from other
modalities is beneficial for improving speech coding quality.
Other modalities, such as the visual modality, also con-
tain rich speech-related information, e.g., speaker characteris-
tics. Integrating visual information to assist speech generation
tasks has gained widespread attention [12–15]. For example,
Xu et al. proposed a multi-layer fusion model with multi-head
cross-attention mechanism to fuse audio and lip features for
audio-visual speech enhancement in [15]. Zheng et al. incorpo-
rated ultrasound tongue images to improve the performance of
lip-based speech enhancement [14]. Researchers have also col-
lected audio-visual corpus [16] and made efforts towards audio-
visual speech recognition [17]. However, integrating visual in-
formation into neural speech codecs to improve performance
has not yet been thoroughly investigated.
Therefore, this paper proposes VNSC, a vision-integrated
neural speech codec, to explore the potential of visual modal-
ity in improving coding quality. The image analysis-synthesis
module of VNSC extracts visual features from lip images,
which are then fully integrated with speech features through the
feature fusion module to forms bimodal features. These features
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
619
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1409

...
...
MCNX v2
Conv3D
(Pooling)
BN
ReLU
Conv3D
BN
ReLU
MaxPooling
Lip Image 
Sequence
×1
Image 
Feature
×4
Image Analyzer
TransConv3D
BN
ReLU
×5
Image Synthesizer
Speech 
Feature
Concat
Linear
Bimodal 
Feature
MCNX v2
MCNX v2
...
MCNX v2
...
Feature Fusion Module
Speech Encoder
Synthesized 
Lip Image 
Sequence
Image Reconstruction Loss LI
Reshape
Conv1D
Linear
Reshape
×4
Conv1D
×4
Linear
Reshape
Reshape
Training and Inference Flow
Training Only Flow
Training Loss
...
...
MCNX v2
Conv3D
(Pooling)
BN
ReLU
Conv3D
BN
ReLU
MaxPooling
Lip Image 
Sequence
×1
Image 
Feature
×4
Image Analyzer
TransConv3D
BN
ReLU
×5
Image Synthesizer
Speech 
Feature
Concat
Linear
Bimodal 
Feature
MCNX v2
MCNX v2
...
MCNX v2
...
Feature Fusion Module
Speech Encoder
Synthesized 
Lip Image 
Sequence
Image Reconstruction Loss LI
Reshape
Conv1D
Linear
Reshape
×4
Conv1D
×4
Linear
Reshape
Reshape
Distillation Loss LD
Training and Inference Flow
Training Only Flow
Training Loss
(a)
 
Scenario VA
(b)
 
Scenario VUA
Figure 2:
Structural details of the image analysis-synthesis module and the feature fusion module in VNSC. Here, Conv3D,
TransConv3D, and Conv1D represent 3D convolution, transposed 3D convolution and 1D convolution operations, respectively. For
simplicity, only the MCNX v2 blocks of the speech encoder in the speech coding module is depicted.
are then injected into a standard neural speech codec to assist
the coding process. For two different application scenarios, we
design two distinct feature fusion strategies. When visual in-
formation is available during inference, visual features are ex-
plicitly integrated into the speech coding process through con-
catenation. In contrast, when visual information is unavailable
during inference, visual features are implicitly incorporated into
the speech coding process during training through distillation.
Experimental results confirm that with the assistance of visual
modality, both the decoded speech quality and the noise robust-
ness of the neural speech codec are significantly improved.
Finally, we draw conclusions in Section 5.
2. Proposed Method
2.1. Overview
As shown in Figure 1, VNSC consists of a speech coding mod-
ule, an image analysis-synthesis module and a feature fusion
module. The image analysis-synthesis module extracts visual
features from lip images and injects them into the speech en-
coding module via the feature fusion module to assist the coding
process. The VNSC is designed for two scenarios, including
• Scenario VA(Video Available): Visual information is avail-
able during inference. The speech coding process can explic-
itly leverage visual information.
• Scenario VUA(Video Unavailable): Visual information is
unavailable during inference. The speech coding process can
only implicitly incorporate visual information. In this sce-
nario, the speech codec should learn the visual information
even in the absence of visual input, offering the advantage of
incurring no additional computational during inference.
2.2. Speech Coding Module
We use MDCTCodec [10], an efficient and lightweight neural
speech codec, in the speech coding module. The speech encoder
takes the MDCT spectrum M ∈RM×N of the raw speech as
input, combines it with visual information from the feature fu-
sion module, and outputs the encoded bimodal features, where
M and N represent the dimensions and the number of frames
of the MDCT spectrum, respectively. These features are then
discretized by an RVQ. The speech decoder finally decodes the
MDCT spectrum from the quantized results and reconstructs the
waveform via inverse MDCT (IMDCT).
The speech encoder includes a pre-processing module,
eight cascaded modified ConvNeXt v2 (MCNX v2) blocks and
a post-processing module. At the input end of the speech en-
coder, a plain 1D convolutional layer and layer normalization
are employed for feature pre-processing. At the output end, the
post-processing module comprises layer normalization, a linear
layer, a downsampling 1D convolutional layer and a plain 1D
convolutional layer. The MCNX v2 blocks have proven to be
well-suited for speech coding [9,10]. Each MCNX v2 block pri-
marily consists of a 1D depth-wise convolutional layer followed
by layer normalization, a linear layer followed by a global re-
sponse normalization [18] layer and a Gaussian error linear unit
activation [19] function, with residual connections. The speech
decoder is largely mirror-symmetric to the speech encoder, ex-
cept that the downsampling 1D convolutional layer is replaced
by a 1D upsampling transposed convolutional layer.
2.3. Image Analysis-Synthesis Module
As shown in Figure 2, the image analysis-synthesis module con-
sists of an image analyzer ϕIA and an image synthesizer ϕIS.
The image analyzer processes the input lip image sequence
I ∈RH×W ×N and extracts the visual feature V ∈RDv×N,
where H and W denote the height and width of each image,
respectively, and Dv represent the dimension of the visual fea-
ture. The image sequence I is time-aligned with the MDCT
spectrum M in the speech coding module, with the temporal
length being N. The image synthesizer then reconstructs the
visual feature V into the image ˆI ∈RH×W ×N. This process
can be represented by the following equations:
V = ϕIA(I), ˆI = ϕIS(V ).
(1)
The extracted visual feature is sent to the feature fusion module
for further processing before being incorporated into the speech
coding process. For VA scenario, only the image analyzer are
used during inference; whereas for VUA scenario, the entire
image analysis-synthesis module is absent during inference.
The image analyzer consists of five cascaded analysis
blocks and a post-processing block. The first analysis block
comprises a 3D convolution, batch normalization (BN) and a
ReLU activation function.
This 3D convolution reduces the
height and width by applying a stride, effectively performing
pooling. The last four analysis blocks include an additional
620

pooling layer to reduce the height and width, with the 3D convo-
lution no longer serves this function. The post-processing block
consists of a linear layer and four 1D convolutional layers, pri-
marily responsible for reshaping the features and reducing the
feature dimensions. The image synthesizer is largely mirror-
symmetric to the image analyzer, with all the 3D convolutions
replaced by 3D transposed convolutions, and the pooling layers
removed. The increase in height and width is achieved by five
3D transposed convolutions.
During the training phase, for both scenarios, we define
an image reconstruction loss between I and ˆI as their mean
squared error (MSE), i.e.,
LI =
1
HWN E(I, ˆI)



I −ˆI



2
F ,
(2)
where ∥· ∥F denotes the Frobenius norm.
2.4. Feature Fusion Module
The feature fusion module is responsible for integrating speech
features and visual features, and transmitting the bimodal fea-
tures into the speech coding process. As shown in Figure 2, fea-
ture interaction occurs between the feature fusion module and
the speech encoder in the speech coding module. Let the output
speech feature of the i-th MCNX v2 block in the speech en-
coder be Xi ∈RDs×N, where Ds represents the dimension of
the speech feature. The feature fusion module concatenates the
speech feature Xi and the visual feature V along the dimension
axes, and applies a linear layer to reduce the dimensionality, en-
suring that the bimodal feature dimensions match those of the
speech feature, i.e.,
ˆ
Xi = Concat{Xi, V }, ˜
Xi = Linear( ˆ
Xi),
(3)
where ˆ
Xi ∈R(Ds+Dv)×N denotes the concatenated feature
and ˜
Xi ∈RDs×N represents the bimodal feature.
As shown in Figure 2, the bimodal feature integration man-
ner differs significantly between the two scenarios. In the VA
scenario, since the lip images are available during the inference
phase, we adopt an explicit integration approach, directly using
the bimodal feature ˜
Xi as input to the next MCNX v2 block,
i.e., the (i + 1)-th block. However, for the VUA scenario, since
the lip images are unavailable during the inference phase, we
adopt an implicit integration approach, distilling the informa-
tion from the bimodal feature ˜
Xi into the speech feature Xi
during the training phase. Specifically, we define the distilla-
tion loss LD between Xi and ˜
Xi as
LD = log
 
1 + e
−
tr(X⊤
i
˜
Xi)
max(||Xi||F ,ε)·max(|| ˜
Xi||F ,ε)
!
,
(4)
where tr denotes the matrix trace and ε = 1e −6 is a lower
bound. The distillation loss encourages the speech features pro-
duced by the MCNX v2 blocks to learn certain visual informa-
tion, ensuring that during inference, the speech encoder can still
generate features containing visual information even without lip
images, which can then be used in the speech coding process.
2.5. Training Criteria
The three modules of VNSC are jointly trained using the gen-
erative adversarial training strategy provided by MDCTCodec
[10]. The speech coding module fully adopts the loss func-
tion LMDCT Codec from MDCTCodec [10], which includes the
generative adversarial loss, MDCT spectrum loss, Mel spec-
trogram loss, and quantization loss. For the VA scenario, the
loss function of VNSC is defined as a linear combination of
LMDCT Codec and the image reconstruction loss LI, i.e.,
LV NSC = LMDCT Codec + λILI.
(5)
For the VUA scenario, the loss function additionally incorpo-
rates the additional distillation loss LD, i.e.,
LV NSC = LMDCT Codec + λILI + λDLD,
(6)
where λI and λD are hyperparameters.
3. Experimental Setup
3.1. Datasets
In the experiment, we utilized the Tongue and Lips (TaL) cor-
pus [16], a multi-speaker dataset containing ultrasound tongue
imaging, optical lip videos and speech for each utterance. We
focused on the TaL80 subset, which included recordings from
81 native English speakers without any voice talent. Only the
speech and lip video data were used in our experiments. The
lip video was recorded at a frame rate of 60 fps, and the speech
was recorded at a sampling rate of 48 kHz at a depth of 16
bit. The training and validation sets contained 11,478 and 810
utterances, respectively, while the remaining 1,140 utterances
formed the test set for inference. The content of these three sets
was mutually exclusive.
3.2. Experimental Settings
In VNSC1, the configuration of the speech coding module is
fully borrowed from MDCTCodec with a bitrate of 6 kbps [10].
The frame shift for extracting MDCT spectrum from the speech
is set to 40, resulting in a frame rate of 1.2 kHz for the speech
feature Xi. The dimension of Xi is set to 256 (i.e., Ds = 256).
For the image analysis-synthesis module, to achieve temporal
alignment between speech and visual features, we first upsam-
pled the lip video to an image sequence at 150 Hz using FFm-
peg [20], and then replicated each time point in the sequence
eight times to achieve a 1.2 kHz frame rate. Each image has a
height and width of 64. The image sequence is first reshaped
into the shape [H = 64, W = 64, C = 1, N] before be-
ing fed into the image analyzer. Here, C represents the number
of channels, and N is determined by the length of the speech.
For the analysis blocks in the image analyzer, the kernel size
of all five 3D convolutions is set to 3, and the output channels
of these five 3D convolutions are set to 32, 64, 128, 256 and
512, respectively. The stride of the first 3D convolution is set
to 1 along the time axis, and 2 along the height and width axes,
while the stride of the remaining four 3D convolutions is set to
1 for all axes. All four pooling operations adopt a 2×2 pooling
window for height and width axes. Therefore, the feature shape
output by the final analysis block is [H = 2, W = 2, C = 512,
N]. Then, the post-processing block first merges the height and
width axes of the feature, eliminates this axis through a linear
layer, and finally reduces the dimensions through four 1D con-
volution layers with kernel sizes of 3 and channel numbers of
256, 256, 64, and 64, respectively, resulting in visual feature V
with a shape of [C = 64, N] (i.e., Fv = 64). The configuration
of the image synthesizer is essentially the same as that of the
1Speech samples are available at https://doge114514-bot.
github.io/VNSC_demo/.
621

Table 1: Evaluation results of the bimodal feature integration
locations and the image reconstruction loss of VNSC on the val-
idation set for VA scenario.
PESQ CSIG CBAK COVL STOI ViSQOL
i = 1
3.28
4.82
3.48
4.09
0.95
3.97
i = 2
3.33
4.85
3.50
4.13
0.95
3.98
i = 3
3.20
4.77
3.38
4.02
0.95
3.91
i = 4
3.17
4.73
3.28
3.98
0.95
3.86
w/o LI (i = 2) 3.22
4.78
3.41
4.04
0.95
3.94
image analyzer. The number of nodes of the linear layer in the
feature fusion module is set to 256.
We trained VNSC on a single Nvidia RTX 4090-D GPU
with batch size of 16. The hyperparameters were set as λI =
10−5 for the VA scenario, and λI = 0.5×10−5 and λD = 1 for
the VUA scenario. We employed the AdamW optimizer [21] for
training, with exponential decay rate β1 = 0.8 and β2 = 0.99.
The learning rate decayed by a factor of 0.999 after each epoch,
starting from an initial rate of 0.0002.
In the experiments, we compared VNSC with its base
model MDCTCodec [10], as well as with several other ad-
vanced neural speech codecs, including SoundStream [5], En-
codec [7] and HiFi-Codec [8]. We used several commonly used
objective metrics to evaluate speech quality, including percep-
tual evaluation of speech quality (PESQ) [22], three composite
measures (CSIG, CBAK and COVL) [23], short-time objective
intelligibility (STOI) [24] and virtual speech quality objective
listener (ViSQOL). For noise robustness evaluation, segmental
signal-to-noise ratio (SSNR) was also used. For all metrics,
higher values indicate better performance.
4. Experimental Results
4.1. Determination of Feature Integration Locations
We first determined the optimal location for integrating bimodal
features in VNSC through experiments, specifically determin-
ing the value of i such that the performance is maximized when
visual information starts flowing into the speech coding process
at the (i + 1)-th MCNX v2 block. The experiments were con-
ducted only for the VA scenario.
The experimental results on the validation set are shown in
Table 1. We can observe that as i increased from 1 to 4, all
metrics first increased and then decreased. Additionally, we can
observe that visual information was integrated too late, the per-
formance degradation is particularly noticeable. When i = 2,
VNSC achieved the best performance. This may be attributed
to the fact that different MCNX v2 blocks in the speech en-
coder learned various aspects of speech during training. The
third block, in particular, likely captured features more closely
related to the principles of speech production, making the flow-
ing of visual information in this block especially beneficial for
learning. In the following experiments, VNSC is configured
with i = 2, meaning that visual information flows into the
speech coding process starting from the third MCNX v2 block.
Additionally, we conducted an ablation study on the vali-
dation set to confirm the necessity of the image synthesizer and
image reconstruction loss LI, with the results shown in the last
row of Table 1. Clearly, when LI is ablated, all metrics sig-
nificantly worsen. This indicates that the image synthesizer and
image reconstruction loss help the image analyzer extract visual
information. Without them, the speech modality may dominate,
and the visual modality would lose its effectiveness.
Table 2: Evaluation results of VNSC and compared advanced
neural speech codecs on the test set.
PESQ CSIG CBAK COVL STOI ViSQOL
VNSC (VA)
3.36
4.87
3.51
4.17
0.96
4.01
VNSC (VUA) 3.30
4.81
3.44
4.08
0.95
3.94
MDCTCodec 3.26
4.79
3.29
4.07
0.95
3.92
SoundStream
2.65
4.21
3.39
3.46
0.90
3.07
Encodec
2.95
4.45
3.55
3.73
0.92
3.21
HiFi-codec
3.29
4.76
3.54
4.06
0.94
3.56
Table 3: Noise robustness evaluation results of VNSC and MD-
CTCodec on a noisy test set.
PESQ CSIG CBAK COVL STOI ViSQOL SSNR
VNSC (VA)
2.95
4.34
3.09
3.66
0.94
3.30
2.63
VNSC (VUA) 2.90
4.26
3.05
3.60
0.94
3.23
2.37
MDCTCodec 2.85
4.25
2.97
3.56
0.93
3.24
1.61
4.2. Comparison with Advanced Codecs
We then compared VNSC with its basic model, MDCTCodec,
and other advanced codecs, i.e., SoundStream, Encodec and
HiFi-Codec. The experimental results on the test set are shown
in Table 2. We can see that VNSC for VA scenario significantly
outperformed MDCTCodec across almost all metrics, confirm-
ing the effectiveness of explicitly incorporating visual informa-
tion. Although VNSC for VUA scenario, like MDCTCodec,
did not incorporate visual information during inference, it still
showed improvements across all metrics, indicating that it has
indeed learned useful visual modality knowledge. Compared to
other codecs, VNSC effectively bridged the performance gap in
certain metrics that MDCTCodec, as a unimodal model, falled
short in. For example, the CBAK of MDCTCodec showed a
large gap compared to HiFi-Codec, but after incorporating vi-
sual information to form VNSC, this metric became compara-
ble. In summary, integrating visual information in VNSC is
beneficial for improving speech coding quality, and VNSC con-
siders multiple scenarios, making it practical and versatile.
4.3. Evaluation on Noise Robustness
Finally, we evaluated the noise robustness of VNSC. Specifi-
cally, we added slight noise to the test set, then encoded the
speech using MDCTCodec and VNSC, respectively, and com-
puted the objective metrics by comparing the decoded speech
with the original clean speech. Experimental results are shown
in Table 3.
VNSC consistently outperformed MDCTCodec
across all metrics in both scenarios. The improvement in SSNR
was particularly significant, indicating that integrating visual in-
formation effectively enhanced the model’s noise robustness.
5. Conclusion
This paper proposed VNSC, a novel bimodal neural speech
codec that integrates visual information. VNSC is built upon the
speech-modal MDCTCodec, with visual information extracted
from lip images flowing into the speech coding process. For
scenarios where lip images may or may not be available during
the inference stage, explicit integration and implicit distillation
of visual information are employed, respectively. Experimental
results confirm that the proposed VNSC outperformed the uni-
modal speech codec in both decoded speech quality and noise
robustness. Further reducing the latency of VNSC and develop-
ing a streamable bimodal codec will be our future work.
622

6. References
[1] ITU-T, “Recommendation G.711: Pulse code modulation (PCM)
of voice frequencies,” International Telecommunication Union,
1988.
[2] ITU-T, “Recommendation G.723: Speech coders for multimedia
communications: dual-rate coder (5.3/6.3 kbps),” International
Telecommunication Union, 1996.
[3] ITU-T, “Recommendation g.726: 40, 32, 24, and 16 kbps adap-
tive differential pulse code modulation (ADPCM),” International
Telecommunication Union, 1990.
[4] ITU-T, “Recommendation G.729: Coding of speech at 8 kbps
using conjugate-structure algebraic-code-excited linear prediction
(CS-ACELP),” International Telecommunication Union, 1996.
[5] N.
Zeghidour,
A.
Luebs,
A.
Omran,
J.
Skoglund,
and
M. Tagliasacchi, “SoundStream:
An end-to-end neural audio
codec,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Lan-
guage Processing, vol. 30, pp. 495–507, 2021.
[6] A. Vasuki and P. Vanathi, “A review of vector quantization tech-
niques,” IEEE Potentials, vol. 25, no. 4, pp. 39–47, 2006.
[7] A. D´efossez, J. Copet, G. Synnaeve, and Y. Adi, “High fidelity
neural audio compression,” Transactions on Machine Learning
Research.
[8] D. Yang, S. Liu, R. Huang, J. Tian, C. Weng, and Y. Zou, “HiFi-
Codec: Group-residual vector quantization for high fidelity audio
codec,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.02765, 2023.
[9] Y. Ai, X.-H. Jiang, Y.-X. Lu, H.-P. Du, and Z.-H. Ling, “APCodec:
A neural audio codec with parallel amplitude and phase spec-
trum encoding and decoding,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio,
Speech, and Language Processing, vol. 32, pp. 3256–3269, 2024.
[10] X.-H. Jiang, Y. Ai, R.-C. Zheng, H.-P. Du, Y.-X. Lu, and Z.-H.
Ling, “Mdctcodec: A lightweight mdct-based neural audio codec
towards high sampling rate and low bitrate scenarios,” in Proc.
SLT, 2024, pp. 540–547.
[11] M. M. Ahasan, M. Fahim, T. Mohiuddin, A. Rahman, A. Chadha,
T. Iqbal, M. A. Amin, M. M. Islam, and A. A. Ali, “DM-Codec:
Distilling multimodal representations for speech tokenization,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.15017, 2024.
[12] T. Alfouras, J. Chung, and A. Zisserman, “The conversation:
Deep audio-visual speech enhancement,” in Proc. Interspeech,
2018, pp. 3244–3248.
[13] X. Xu, Y. Wang, D. Xu, Y. Peng, C. Zhang, J. Jia, and B. Chen,
“Vsegan: Visual speech enhancement generative adversarial net-
work,” in Proc. ICASSP, 2022, pp. 7308–7311.
[14] R.-C. Zheng, Y. Ai, and Z.-H. Ling, “Incorporating ultra-
sound tongue images for audio-visual speech enhancement,”
IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Pro-
cessing, vol. 32, pp. 1430–1444, 2024.
[15] X. Xu, Y. Wang, J. Jia, B. Chen, and D. Li, “Improving visual
speech enhancement network by learning audio-visual affinity
with multi-head attention,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2022, pp. 971–
975.
[16] M. S. Ribeiro, J. Sanger, J.-X. Zhang, A. Eshky, A. Wrench,
K. Richmond, and S. Renals, “TaL: a synchronised multi-speaker
corpus of ultrasound tongue imaging, audio, and lip videos,” in
Proc. SLT, 2021, pp. 1109–1116.
[17] T. Afouras, J. S. Chung, A. Senior, O. Vinyals, and A. Zisser-
man, “Deep audio-visual speech recognition,” IEEE transactions
on pattern analysis and machine intelligence, vol. 44, no. 12, pp.
8717–8727, 2018.
[18] S. Woo, S. Debnath, R. Hu, X. Chen, Z. Liu, I. S. Kweon, and
S. Xie, “ConvNeXt v2: Co-designing and scaling convnets with
masked autoencoders,” in Proc. CVPR, 2023, pp. 16 133–16 142.
[19] D. Hendrycks and K. Gimpel, “Gaussian error linear units
(gelus),” arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.08415, 2016.
[20] S. Tomar, “Converting video formats with ffmpeg,” Linux journal,
vol. 2006, no. 146, p. 10, 2006.
[21] I. Loshchilov and F. Hutter, “Decoupled weight decay regulariza-
tion,” in Proc. ICLR, 2018.
[22] I. Recommendation, “P. 862.2: Wideband extension to recom-
mendation P. 862 for the assessment of wideband telephone
networks and speech codecs,” International Telecommunication
Union, 2007.
[23] Y. Hu and P. C. Loizou, “Evaluation of objective measures for
speech enhancement,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech,
and Language Processing, vol. 16, no. 1, pp. 229–238, 2008.
[24] C. H. Taal, R. C. Hendriks, R. Heusdens, and J. Jensen, “A short-
time objective intelligibility measure for time-frequency weighted
noisy speech,” in Proc. ICASSP, 2010, pp. 4214–4217.
623

