Extended High-frequency Cues to Phoneme Recognition: Insights from ASR 
Zhe-chen Guo, Bharath Chandrasekaran 
Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders, Northwestern University, USA 
zcguo@northwestern.edu, bchandra@northwestern.edu 
 
 
Abstract 
There is emerging evidence that e xtended high frequencies 
(EHFs; >8 kHz) improve speech perception in noise. Yet, the 
mechanisms underlying th is benefit remain unclear . We 
investigated whether EHFs contribute to phoneme recognition 
using an automatic speech recognition (ASR) model. A neural 
network model was trained to decode phonemes from 
cochleagrams of broadband speech and speech low-pass filtered 
at 8 or 6 kHz in quiet and masked conditions with varying 
target-to-masker ratios (TMRs) and target-masker spatial 
separations. Compared with filtered speech, b roadband speech 
improved phoneme recognition accuracy in masked conditions, 
particularly at lower TMRs , but showed no benefit in quiet . 
Removing EHFs increased the probability of the model 
omitting a phoneme more for consonants than vowels . The 
findings suggest that the EHF benefit in adverse conditions may 
partly arise from enhanced phoneme processing, highlighting 
the potential of improving audiometry and ASR by including 
EHFs. 
Index Terms: extended high frequency, phoneme recognition, 
automatic speech recognition, cochleagram 
1. Introduction 
Although the human ear can hear up to about 20 kHz, there is a 
prevailing view that frequencies above 8 kHz, known as 
extended high frequencies (EHFs), are trivial for speech 
perception. Thus, routine audiological tests do not assess 
hearing at EHFs [1] and phonetic analyses focus on bandwidths 
up to 4–8 kHz [2]. This view also underlies the development of 
automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems, which often rely 
on datasets with a 16-kHz sampling rate (e.g., Librispeech) or 
resample audio to 16 kHz, hence omitting EHF information. 
However, there is growing evidence that EHFs improve 
speech perception in noise (for a review, see [3]). Motlagh 
Zadeh et al. [4], for example, conducted a digits -in-noise task 
and measured listeners’ speech reception thresholds, the signal-
to-noise ratios at which they achieved 50% digit recognition 
accuracy. Results showed that providing access to EHF cues by 
low-pass filtering the noise at 8 kHz reduced reception 
thresholds by around 3 dB. EHF audiograms were also found to 
predict the listeners’ subjective hearing difficulty in noise more 
accurately than audiograms at conventional frequencies (.25–8 
kHz). Similar EHF benefit was reported for more linguistically 
complex stimuli such as sentences [5]. 
A question that remains to be better understood concerns 
the mechanism s underlying the EHF perceptual benefit . One 
hypothesis is that EHFs may directly convey cues relevant to 
phonemic processing. Support for this possibility comes from 
studies showing that phoneme recognition is possible using 
solely high -frequency cues or improves when such cues are 
available [6, 7]. For instance, Vitela et al. [6] synthesized 
nonsense consonant -vowel tokens with speech content below 
5.7 Hz replaced by noise. Even with such degraded stimuli, 
their listeners could identify phonemes well above chance , 
especially for consonants. On the other hand, reduced EHF 
hearing sensitivity may indicate poorer temporal processing in 
the cochlea [8, 9]. An alternative possibility is that EHFs are a 
proxy for broader cochlear health. Thus, removing EHFs does 
not eliminate critical phonemic information, but rather mimics 
speech perception under compromised cochlear function. 
Whether better phoneme recognition is part of the EHF 
benefit is still controversial due to limitations of existing 
evidence, particularly in its generalizability to real-world 
speech perception . Support for identifying phonemes using 
only high frequencies sometimes comes from studies (e.g., 
[10]) using stimuli with lower-frequency cues completely 
removed, which are not representative of naturalistic speech. 
The high-pass filters used to isolate high frequencies could also 
have cutoff frequencies at 5–6 kHz (e.g., [6]), leaving it unclear 
whether accurate phoneme recognition was due to EHFs above 
8 kHz. Furthermore, the effect of EHFs is modulated by aspects 
of the real-world auditory scenes such as the presence of an 
interfering talker and the spatial configurations of the talker. 
For example, due to high frequencies being more directional , 
EHFs reduced speech reception thresholds more when the 
target and masking talkers were more spatially separated [11]. 
To address the limitations and assess whether EHF cues can 
in theory aid phoneme recognition, we experimented with an 
acoustic ASR model trained to decode phonemes from speech. 
Using ASR bypasses challenges in testing purely phonem ic 
recognition in natural speech with human listeners, such as top-
down lexical bias [12]. Also, EHF hearing thresholds vary 
greatly even among younger adults with normal hearing [4], 
making it difficult to control the cochlear health of the subjects. 
To provide a perceptually relevant model of human audition, 
we converted speech into c ochleagrams, which simulate the 
non-linear frequency response s in the cochlea [13]. 
Cochleagrams have been shown to outperform traditional 
spectrograms in predicting brain responses to speech [14] and 
used to train convolutional neural network (CNN) models that 
capture the hierarchical auditory processing in the cortex [15]. 
These suggest the potential of cochleagram -based ASR for 
investigating speech perception. 
We trained a CNN-BiLSTM model on cochleagrams of 
“broadband” (unfiltered) speech and speech low-pass filtered at 
8 kHz (LP-8kHz) and 6 kHz (LP-6kHz) (Figure 1A). The 6 kHz 
cutoff was included as research on high-frequency speech cues 
also often tested frequencies above 5 –6 kHz (e.g., [16]). In 
addition to speech in quiet, we simulated spatial listening in 
which t arget speech was masked by a competing talker at 
varying azimuth angles and target -to-masker ratios (TMRs) . 
The broadband and low -pass filtering conditions were 
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
1038 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1125

compared to examine the impact of removing high frequencies 
on recognition accuracy. Additionally, we examined the impact 
on the model error rates of individual phonemes. As consonants 
have higher frequencies than vowels [2], it is expected that 
consonants would be affected more by removal of EHFs. 
2. Method 
2.1. Dataset 
Speech data were from the VCTK corpus [17], which includes 
48-kHz recordings of sentences (e.g., Please call stella ) 
produced by 109 English speakers. We used the 13,636 
recordings from the 33 British-accented speakers and randomly 
split them into training (80%), validation (10%), and test (10%) 
sets. Word -level transcriptions were converted to phonemes 
using Phonemizer [18] with the espeak backend for British 
English. Phonemically non-contrastive vowel variations (e.g., 
[ɐɡɛn] ‘again’ vs. [bəluːn] ‘ballon’) were merged, resulting in a 
47-phoneme inventory (25 consonants, 22 mono/diphthongs). 
2.2. Spatial audio synthesis 
We synthesized spatial audio with the target speech masked by 
a competing talker from various directions (Figure 1B) . 
Maskers were selected from non -British-accented speakers of 
the same corpus and paired with targets based on duration 
similarity (within −0.2 to +0.8 s). The shorter of the pair was 
zero-padded to match the duration of the longer and their 
intensities were adjusted to TMRs ranging from +3 to −12 dB 
SPL in 3 dB steps. Spatial separation between the two talkers 
was simulated using the CIPIC HR TF database [19], which 
provides head -related impulse responses (HRIRs) 
characterizing how sounds from different directions are filtered 
by the listener’s anatomical features (e.g., pinna size) before 
arriving at the eardrum . Each target-masker pair was assigned 
HRIRs from a randomly selected human subject of the 
database. Target speech was always convolved with HRIRs of 
both ears at azimuth = 0° (i.e., directly facing the listener) while 
the masker was convolved with those at θ. We tested θ = ±20°, 
±45°, ±80°, and ±120° . Target and masker signals were 
summed at each ear and the left and right channels were 
combined to form stereophonic audio. Target speech in quiet 
was processed using the same procedure but without a masker. 
2.3. Filtering and cochleagram generation 
Speech was either broadband (unfiltered) or low -pass filtered 
with a cutoff frequency of 6 kHz (LP-6kHz) or 8 kHz (LP-
8kHz). Low -pass filtering was performed using a 1024 -tap 
finite impulse response filter with a sharp roll -off [5]. Speech 
was transformed into cochleagrams using a gammatone 
filterbank mimicking the processing in the human cochlea [13] 
(Figure 1A). The filterbank comprised 128 filters with center 
frequencies spaced on an ERB scale from 20 Hz to 20 kHz and 
was applied separately to the left and right channels. The 
resulting cochleagrams underwent half -wave rectification and 
cubic root compression [20] and then were downsampled by 
averaging in 10 -ms non -overlapping bins for computational 
efficiency. Cochleagram conversion was implemented using 
the brian2hears Python library [21]. 
2.4. Phoneme decoding model 
A neural network was developed to decode phonemes spoken 
by the target talker from broadband or filtered cochleagrams. 
Figure 2 illustrates the model architecture. The model consisted 
of a CNN block for spectro -temporal feature extraction and a 
bidirectional long short-term memory (BiLSTM) block for 
sequence learning . The CNN block included three 2D 
convolutional layers (3 × 3 kernels, 128/256/128 channels), 
each followed by batch normalization, ReLU activation, and 
dropout ( p = 0.2). The output was flattened and passed to a 
three-layer BiLSTM (hidden size = 128, dropout = 0.2), 
followed by a fully connected layer with log softmax activation. 
The outputs were greedy decoded, selecting the most probable 
phoneme at each time step. No language model was applied. 
Accuracy was computed as 1 – phoneme error rate (PER), 
where PER is the Levenshtein distanc e, or the minimum 
number of substitutions, deletions, and insertions required to 
transform the actual phoneme string to the predicted one, 
normalized by sequence length. The model was trained using 
connectionist temporal classification loss and the AdamW 
optimizer (batch size = 32, max. 200 epochs, initial learning rate 
= 0.005, halved every 25 epochs). Early stopping (patience = 
15 epochs) was applied to terminate training when validation 
PER no longer improved. The model was implemented in 
PyTorch (v2.1.2) and trained using NVIDIA Tesla A100 GPUs. 
 
 
Figure 1: (A) Cochleagrams of broadband speech and 
speech low-pass filtered at 8 and 6 kHz. (B) 
Simulation of spatially separated target and masker 
using head-related transfer functions. 
2.5. Analyses 
All analyses were conducted on the test-set results. First, t o 
assess how removing energy above 6 and 8 kHz affects 
phoneme accuracy in quiet, a linear mixed-effects regression 
model was fitted with the lme4 package [22] of R [23] including 
Bandwidth ( reference level: broadband) as a fixed effect and 
target talker as a random intercept. For masked conditions, a 
mixed model was fitted including Bandwidth, TMR, the degree 
of target -masker separation (Separation), and all their 
interactions as fixed effects. Post-hoc comparisons assessed 
whether phoneme accuracy differed between broadband and 
either low -pass filtering condition at each level of TM R and 
Separation, with p-values corrected for false discovery rate. 
Next, we further examined phoneme recognition in the 
presence of a masker. Several EHF studies use speech reception 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1039

thresholds to assess speech perception in noise [4, 11] . We 
followed a similar approach to calculate “phoneme recognition 
threshold.” Specifically, we fitted the same linear regression 
model for the masked conditions but including TMR as a 
continuous variable. The model coefficients were then used to 
construct an inverse function mapping an input accuracy rate to 
the TMR r equired to achieve that accuracy for a particular 
combination of bandwidth and degree of target -masker 
separation. Lower values for this TMR threshold indicate better 
performance. We tested in put a ccuracy 60% to 80% and 
computed the threshold differences between LP -8kHz/LP-
6kHz and broadband conditions. Positive values suggest 
threshold reduction due to access to high frequencies. 
Finally, w e explored how EHFs affect the error rates of 
individual phonemes, focusing on consonants vs. vowels . We 
estimated the probability of a phoneme i (Phi) being replaced, 
deleted, or inserted using the following Bayesian formula: 
 Pk(E|Phi) = 
Pk(Phi|E)P(E)
P(Phi) (1) 
where E represents error type: either deletion, insertion, or 
substitution. Pk(Phi|E) was estimated as the proportion of errors 
E that involved Phi in bandwidth condition k. Pk(E) was 
calculated as the proportion of error of type E among all errors 
in condition k. Pk(Phi) was the proportion of Phi of all phoneme 
instances. The resulting posterior probability controlled for the 
fact that phonemes differ in occurrence frequenc y in natural 
speech. We focused on the impact of EHFs and computed the 
change in this probability from LP-8kHz to broadband for each 
phoneme, or PLP-8kHz(E|Phi) – PBroadband(E|Phi). We then 
compared the change across consonant and vowel phonemes 
using independent t-tests. This error analysis was performed on 
the 28 phonemes with an occurrence frequency of at least 1% 
in the conditions with TMRs ≤ –9 dB, where the EHF effect 
was consistently observed (see Results). 
 
 
Figure 2: Architecture of the phoneme decoder and 
calculation of phoneme recognition accuracy. 
3. Results 
Figure 3 shows the mean phoneme recognition accuracy across 
all conditions . For speech in quiet, the broadband condition 
(mean = .872, SD = .097) did not differ significantly from LP -
8KHz (mean = .876, SD = .094; β = .004, t = 1.272, p = .203) 
and LP-6KHz (mean = 0.874, SD = 0.094; β = .002, t = .714 p 
= .475). Hence, there was no evidence that frequencies above 6 
and 8 kHz improve recognition in quiet above and beyond 
lower-frequency content. For masked speech, an ANOVA test 
of the mixed model indicated th at all main effects and 
interactions were signficant (all ps < .001). To more directly 
evaluate the bandwidth effects, the post-hoc comparisons were 
conducted and the significance outcomes are summarized with 
asterisks in Figure 3. Overall, accuracy was signficantly higher 
in the broadband condition than LP-6kHz. A similar trend was 
found for broadband vs. LP-8kHz but it was more consistently 
seen at TMR s ≤ −9 d B. The findings suggested that high 
frequencies aid phoneme recognition when there is a masker, 
particularly at lower TMRs. 
 
 
Figure 3: Mean phoneme recognition accuracy of 
quiet and masked speech by bandwidth condition. 
 
Figure 4: Difference in phoneme recognition threshold 
between LP-8kHz/LP-6kHz as a function of accuracy. 
Figure 4 shows the difference in TMR threshold between 
LP-8kHz/LP-6kHz and broadband as a function of accuracy. 
The difference values were all positive and, in general, at least 
1 dB, indicating that availability of high frequencies reduced 
phoneme recognition threshold. The reduction tended to be 
larger in the lower range of accuracy but became smaller for 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1040

higher accuracy, consistent with the minimal contribution of 
high frequencies in quiet from the accuracy analysis. 
Additionally, the tendency was more obvious as the degree of 
target-masker spatial separation became larger. 
Figure 5 plots the change in the probability of each error 
type from LP-8kHz to broadband for each phoneme, computed 
using the results from all masked conditions with TMRs ≤ −9 
dB. For deletion and substitution, the changes were mostly 
positive, indicating that excluding EHFs increased error rates. 
Importantly, for deletion, the increase was significantly greater 
for consonants than vowels (Welch’s t(25.919) = 3.303, p = 
.003). The changes in probability did not differ significantly for 
substitution (Welch’s t(24.743) = 1.655, p = .111) and insertion 
(Welch’s t(25.969) = −1.071, p = .294). Note that /f, v/ showed 
the greatest increase in both deletion and substitution 
probability, which will be discussed in detail. We repeated the 
error analysis for the broadband vs. LP -6kHz contrast and 
found the same significance patterns, except this time the 
increase in substitution rate was also significantly higher for 
consonants than vowels. 
 
 
Figure 5: Change in the probability of substitution, 
deletion, and insertion error from broadband to LP-
8kHz condition for each phoneme. 
4. Discussion 
This study investigated the contribution of EHFs to phoneme 
recognition by training a cochleagram -based ASR to decode 
phonemes in quiet and in the presence of a masker with varying 
degrees of simulated spatial separation. In the masked 
conditions, b roadband speech showed higher recognition 
accuracy compared with speech low-pass filtered at 8 or 6 kHz, 
especially at TMRs lower than −9 dB. Such difference was not 
found for the quiet conditions. Broadband speech also required 
lower TMRs to reach the same accuracy as filtered speech, with 
the threshold reduction increasing as accuracy decreased and 
target-masker separation widened. Error analyses revealed that 
removing EHFs disproportionately increased deletion rates for 
consonants compared with vowels. 
The results support the hypothesis that EHFs contain 
information directly relevant to phoneme recognition . 
Therefore, the perceptual benefit of EHFs in studies with 
human listeners [5, 24] can arise at least partly from improved 
decoding of phonemic content. Th is gain in bottom-up 
processing in turn lowers the cognitive resources needed to 
recover ambiguous speech sounds using other cues, driving the 
correlation between EHF hearing sensitivity and subjective 
report of hearing in noise difficulty [4]. However, note that 
neither frequencies above 8 kHz nor those above 6 kHz further 
improved phoneme recognition in quiet. This aligns with the 
speech intelligibility index model [25], which evaluates the 
importance of different frequency bands for intelligibility in 
quiet and predicts minimal additional benefit for 7 –10 kHz . 
These findings highlight the need to consider both optimal and 
suboptimal listening situations when evaluating EHF effects. 
Consistently, the recognition threshold analysis revealed 
that the threshold reduction due to high-frequency cues was as 
small as around 1 dB in the higher-accuracy range but increased 
to 2 –6 dB when accuracy was lower. Th e trend was more 
obvious when the target and masker were further apart, similar 
to the patterns observed in previous work [11]. This is 
presumably because the interference from the masker would be 
smaller at the ear contralateral to the masker source than the 
ipsilateral ear particularly for higher frequencies [26, 27]. Such 
an interaural difference enlarged as the target -masker 
separation became larger, providing the model more 
opportunities to glean additional phonemic information at high 
frequencies using the input from the contralateral ear. 
The increase in deletion probability from broadband to LP-
8kHz suggests that, as expected, consonants are more 
susceptible to removal of EHFs than vowels. Furthermore, we 
observed that the deletion and substitution increased to the 
largest for the labiodental fricatives /f, v/. This pattern was 
strikingly similar to the behavioral results from Polspoel et al. 
[5], who also found that recognition of /f, v/ in noise by human 
listeners were impaired the most among all phonemes when 
EHF energy was filtered out. Compared with other consonants, 
/f, v/ are relatively soft sounds with a flat spectrum and a mean 
spectral peak close to 8 kHz [28, 29]. The low-pass filter at 8 
kHz can eliminate a considerable proportion of the energy in 
these fricatives, causing the ASR model to omit them. 
The EHF benefit for human listeners has led to 
recommendations for including hearing thresholds above 8 kHz 
in standard audiometry [1]. An implication of o ur experiment 
with the cochleagram-based ASR phoneme decoder is that EHF 
hearing sensitivity may serve as a predictive marker of the 
listener’s bottom-up phonemic processing ability in adverse 
listening situations. The current findings also suggest 
reconsideration of EHFs in designing ASR systems, especially 
for applications to real -world auditory environments with 
voices coming from various directions. It would be of interest 
to examine if the EHF benefit extends to larger -scale 
experiments testing state-of-the-art ASR models (e.g., wav2vec 
2.0 [30]) on larger datasets with high-quality audio sampled at 
>40 kHz (e.g., Common Voice [31]). 
One limitation of this study is that the simulated spatial 
listening does not always resemble realistic cocktail party 
problems, in which interfering talkers may be facing away 
rather than directly in front of the listener . As EHF effects are 
shown to be more pronounced with non -facing maskers than 
facing maskers [32], the contribution of EHFs to phoneme 
recognition might be underestimated with the spatial setup used 
here. It would thus be useful to experiment with speech from 
talkers with various head orientations [33]. Additionally, we did 
not test the impact of EHFs on other aspects of speech 
perception (e.g., sound quality judgment). Investigating these 
aspects is crucial for a more comprehensive understanding of 
the mechanisms underlying EHF perceptual benefit. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1041

5. Acknowledgements 
The current work was supported by the Pat & Shirley Ryan 
Family Research Acceleration Fund awarded to B. C. 
6. References 
[1] D. Moore, L. Hunter, and K. Munro, “Benefits of extended 
high-frequency audiometry for everyone,” Hear J, vol. 70, 
no. 3, p. 50,52,55, Mar. 2017. 
[2] P. Ladefoged and K. Johnson, A course in phonetics, 6th ed. 
Boston, MA: Cengage Learning, 2011. 
[3] L. L. Hunter et al., “Extended high frequency hearing and 
speech perception implications in adults and children,” Hear 
Res, vol. 397, p. 107922, Nov. 2020. 
[4] L. Motlagh Zadeh, N. H. Silbert, K. Sternasty , D. W. 
Swanepoel, L. L. Hunter, and D. R. Moore, “Extended high-
frequency hearing enhances speech perception in noise,” 
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , vol. 116, 
no. 47, pp. 23753–23759, Nov. 2019. 
[5] S. Polspoel, S. E. Kramer, B. van Dijk, and C. Smits, “The 
importance of extended high -frequency speech information 
in the recognition of digits, words, and sentences in quiet and 
noise,” Ear Hear, vol. 43, no. 3, pp. 913–920, May 2022. 
[6] A. D. Vitela, B. B. Monson, and A. J. Lotto, “Phoneme 
categorization relying solely on high -frequency energy,” J 
Acoust Soc Am, vol. 137, no. 1, pp. EL65–EL70, Jan. 2015. 
[7] C. Füllgrabe, T. Baer, M. A. Stone, and B. C. J. Moore, 
“Preliminary evaluation of a method for fitting hearing aids 
with extended bandwidth,” Int J Audiol, vol. 49, no. 10, pp. 
741–753, Oct. 2010. 
[8] S. G. Kujawa and M. C. Liberman, “Translating animal 
models to human therapeutics in noise -induced and age -
related hearing loss,” Hear Res , vol. 377, pp. 44 –52, Jun. 
2019. 
[9] M. C. Liberman, M. J. Epstein, S. S. Cleveland, H. Wang, and 
S. F. Maison, “Toward a differential diagnosis of hidden 
hearing loss in humans,” PLoS One , vol. 11, no. 9, p. 
e0162726, Sep. 2016. 
[10] R. P. Lippmann, “Accurate consonant perception without 
mid-frequency speech energy,” IEEE Transactions on 
Speech and Audio Processing, vol. 4, no. 1, p. 66, Jan. 1996. 
[11] S. C. Levy, D. J. Freed, M. Nilsson, B. C. J. Moore, and S. 
Puria, “Extended high-frequency bandwidth improves speech 
reception in the presence of spatially separated masking 
speech,” Ear Hear, vol. 36, no. 5, pp. e214–e224, Sep. 2015. 
[12] W. F. Ganong, “Phonetic categorization in auditory word 
perception.,” J Exp Psychol Hum Percept Perform, vol. 6, no. 
1, pp. 110–125, 1980. 
[13] M. Slaney, “Auditory toolbox,” Interval Research 
Corporation, Tech. Rep, vol. 10, p. 1194, 1998. 
[14] C. Brodbeck et al. , “Eelbrain, a Python toolkit for time -
continuous analysis with temporal response functions,” Elife, 
vol. 12, Nov. 2023. 
[15] A. J. E. Kell, D. L. K. Yamins, E. N. Shook, S. V. Norman -
Haignere, and J. H. McDermott, “A task -optimized neural 
network replicates human auditory behavior, predicts brain 
responses, and reveals a cortical processing hierarchy,” 
Neuron, vol. 98, no. 3, pp. 630-644.e16, May 2018. 
[16] B. B. Monson, A. J. Lotto, and B. H. Story, “Detection of 
high-frequency energy level changes in speech and singing,” 
J Acoust Soc Am, vol. 135, no. 1, pp. 400–406, Jan. 2014. 
[17] J. Yamagishi, C. Veaux, and K. MacDonald, “CSTR VCTK 
Corpus: English Multi -speaker Corpus for CSTR Voice 
Cloning Toolkit (version 0.92),” 2019, The Centre for Speech 
Technology Research (CSTR), University of Edinburgh. 
[18] M. Bernard and H. Titeux, “Phonemizer: Text to phones 
transcription for multiple languages in Python,” J Open 
Source Softw, vol. 6, no. 68, p. 3958, Dec. 2021. 
[19] R. V. Algazi, R. O. Duda, D. M. Thompson, and C. 
Avendano, “The CIPIC HRTF database,” in Proceedings of 
the 2001 IEEE Workshop on the Applications of Signal 
Processing to Audio and Acoustics (Cat. No.01TH8575) , 
IEEE, 2001, pp. 99–102. 
[20] R. D. Patterson, M. H. Allerhand, and C. Giguère, “Time -
domain modeling of peripheral auditory processing: A 
modular architecture and a software platform,” J Acoust Soc 
Am, vol. 98, no. 4, pp. 1890–1894, Oct. 1995. 
[21] M. Stimberg, R. Brette, and D. F. Goodman, “Brian 2, an 
intuitive and efficient neural simulator,” Elife, vol. 8, Aug. 
2019. 
[22] D. Bates, M. Mächler, B. M. Bolker, and S. C. Walker, 
“Fitting linear mixed -effects models using lme4,” J Stat 
Softw, vol. 67, no. 1, 2015. 
[23] R Core Team, “R: A language and environment for statistical 
computing,” 2023, Vienna, Austria. 
[24] B. B. Monson, J. Rock, A. Schulz, E. Hoffman, and E. Buss, 
“Ecological cocktail party listening reveals the utility of 
extended high -frequency hearing,” Hear Res , vol. 381, p. 
107773, Sep. 2019. 
[25] American National Standards Institute (ANSI), “Methods for 
calculation of the speech intelligibility index, ANSI S3.5 -
1997,” 1997. 
[26] A. W. Bronkhorst and R. Plomp, “Binaural speech 
intelligibility in noise for hearing -impaired listeners,” J 
Acoust Soc Am, vol. 86, no. 4, pp. 1374–1383, Oct. 1989. 
[27] G. F. Kuhn, “Model for the interaural time differences in the 
azimuthal plane,” J Acoust Soc Am , vol. 62, no. 1, pp. 157 –
167, Jul. 1977. 
[28] K. Maniwa, A. Jongman, and T. Wade, “Acoustic 
characteristics of clearly spoken English fricatives,” J Acoust 
Soc Am, vol. 125, no. 6, pp. 3962–3973, 2009. 
[29] A. Jongman, R. Wayland, and S. Wong, “Acoustic 
characteristics of English fricatives,” J Acoust Soc Am , vol. 
108, no. 3, pp. 1252–1263, Sep. 2000. 
[30] A. Baevski, H. Zhou, A. Mohamed, and M. Auli, “wav2vec 
2.0: a framework for self -supervised learning of speech 
representations,” in Proceedings of the 34th International 
Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , 
2020, pp. 12449–12460. 
[31] R. Ardila et al., “Common Voice: A massively -multilingual 
speech corpus,” arXiv preprint, 2019. 
[32] M. D. Braza, N. E. Corbin, E. Buss, and B. B. Monson, 
“Effect of masker head orientation, listener age, and extended 
high-frequency sensitivity on speech recognition in spatially 
separated speech,” Ear Hear, vol. 43, no. 1, pp. 90–100, Jan. 
2022. 
[33] M. K. Miller et al. , “An anechoic, high -fidelity, 
multidirectional speech corpus,” Journal of Speech, 
Language, and Hearing Research , vol. 68, no. 1, pp. 411 –
418, Jan. 2025. 
 
1042
