warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Low Complex IIR Adaptive Hear-Through Ambient Filtering for Overcoming 
Practical Constraints in Earbuds 
Rishabh Gupta1*, M L N S Karthik1*, Yughendaran Palanivel2** 
1Samsung Research Institute Bangalore, 2Texas Instruments, Bangalore, India 
rishabh.g@samsung.com, mk.srinivas@samsung.com, y-p@ti.com 
 
Abstract 
The materials used in the headphones and earbuds typically 
attenuate sound passively above frequency of 500-700 Hz. 
Hear-Through (HT) techniques can compensate for the passive 
attenuation characteristics of listening devices to achieve a 
listening experience similar to the open ear for enhancing 
situational awareness of the users. Most studies have proposed 
usage of fixed-filter or adaptive finite impulse response (FIR) 
HT techniques, which can lead to mismatch between the 
modelled and desired open ear response for different users and 
fittings, or lead to higher computations and larger processing 
delays. This paper proposes a virtual sensing model with an 
infinite impulse response (IIR) based adaptive equalization 
method to model the open ear response at user’s eardrum. The 
proposed method reduces the computational complexity by 
34%, while maintaining stability and providing superior HT 
performance upto 10 dB compared to existing methods in 
dynamic acoustic scenarios. 
Index Terms: Hear-Through, ambient filter, adaptive IIR filter, 
adaptive FIR filter, ear canal model 
1. Introduction 
With advancements in Digital signal processors and algorithms 
for audio technology, several smart headphones and earbuds 
have been developed which provide higher fidelity audio, active 
noise control (ANC) and hear-through (HT) modes (also 
referred as ambient/transparency mode) for enhancing 
immersion, comfort and awareness of the user [1], [3-6] [14]. 
In all earbuds and headphones, the external ambient sound is 
attenuated by passive filtering due to physical structure of the 
devices [7, 8].  The goal of HT mode is to make the earbuds 
acoustically transparent thereby allowing the user to have a 
listening experience over headphones or earbuds which is 
perceptually similar to the open ear listening. The HT mode 
ensures that the user has environmental awareness in day-to-
day listening such as conversations, music, pet sounds and 
paying attention to emergency situations such as alarm sounds, 
sirens or horns [9], [10]. To achieve this goal, external ambient 
signal captured by the microphone facing the ambient 
environment (referred to as reference microphone) should be 
processed by the HT Equalization (EQ) filter to generate the 
pseudo-ambient sound signal. The pseudo ambient signal is 
played back by the loudspeaker which combines with leaked 
signal present due to passive isolation to generate the ambient 
signal heard by users in earbuds devices [11].  
 
* Equal contribution 
** Yughendaran was working at Samsung R&D Institute, Bangalore at the time of preparation of this manuscript 
 
      Previous studies have proposed HT techniques primarily 
using fixed and adaptive FIR filtering and fixed IIR filtering 
methods. Ramo and Valimiki proposed and evaluated HT 
filtering method based on the all-pass filtering [12, 13]. Ranjan 
and Gan described the adaptive equalization methods for fusion 
of the virtual and real sounds using the prototype open-ear 
headphones with up to 10dB of isolation for higher frequencies 
(above 5 kHz) [9].  Patel et al. proposed a super directive 
beamformer combined with adaptive FIR filtering techniques 
using directional microphone arrays for HT [15]. Zhaung et al. 
proposed a frequency domain-based implementation for HT EQ 
similar to the constrained Active Noise Cancellation (ANC) 
design based on solving cone programming problem [16]. 
Approaches combining deep learning and dimensionality 
reduction techniques with fixed or adaptive filtering techniques 
to improve HT performance have also been explored in past 
literature. In our previous paper, we proposed a parametric HT 
equalization method using NN models to compute direction of 
arrival (DoA) of incident sound source and selecting the 
appropriate HT filter pre-computed using adaptive approaches 
from the database [17]. Jin et al. proposed the derivation of 
individualized HT equalization filters by leveraging secondary 
path estimates to predict sound pressure at the eardrum using 
the Principle Component Analysis (PCA) method [18]. Huang 
et.al. has proposed a FIR filter Least mean square (LMS) based 
adaptive HT for in-ear headphones [24].  
         However, previous HT studies mentioned above have 
mostly focused on utilizing fixed FIR/IIR or adaptive FIR filters 
for HT filtering. For HT techniques, minimizing computational 
complexity is important to reduce processing delay, since large 
processing delays can lead to unnatural HT experience and 
comb-filtering effects. While fixed filters analyzed in previous 
studies have low processing delay in real-time operations, these 
filters can often lead to mismatch between modelled and desired 
open ear response for different users and different fittings for 
each user. Adaptive FIR filters overcome this issue and provide 
a closer match to the target open ear response while maintaining 
stability, however, they often lead to higher computational 
complexity, larger memory requirements due to higher filter 
orders and higher processing delays for earbud devices which 
often have strict memory and computational resource 
constraints. Although adaptive IIR filters can help to reduce the 
computational complexity, memory usage and processing 
delays, based on our review, most previous HT studies have not 
presented a systematic analysis for ensuring IIR filter stability 
and achieving superior performance for different real-world HT 
scenarios. 
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
3115
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1646

        Moreover, most of the previous studies have examined HT 
performance close to the internal microphone present near to 
the loudspeaker of the headphones or earbuds. However, the HT 
performance typically has some difference at the internal 
microphone and at the ideal location of the error microphone, 
which is at the eardrum of the user. Evaluating performance 
near the eardrum is difficult because it is difficult to place an 
error microphone safely close to the eardrum. It is also difficult 
to model the unique characteristics of each user’s individual ear 
canal [18]. The equivalent circuit models which have been 
typically used for estimating sound pressure at eardrum, are 
Norton/Thevenin models [19], Transmission line equivalence 
model [20], modified horn equation model [21], reflectance 
phase and pressure minima-based methods [25]. Although most 
of the previous studies have been focused on the lumped 
parameter models, practical usage of these models for earbuds 
or headphones is challenging due to their limited accuracy 
across the wide frequency range of interest (typically 100 Hz to 
8 kHz) and their lack of generalizability across different users 
and fittings. 
        This study aims to address the issues using the proposed 
virtual sensing based in-ear modelling for HT system. Here, 
virtual sensing is proposed to estimate the sound pressure at the 
eardrum based on the sound pressure at the internal 
microphone. The approach of virtual sensing is inspired by its 
usage in ANC to control the noise at the desired zone of quiet 
region [22, 23]. In this paper, virtual sensing based adaptive IIR 
HT EQ filter is developed for reducing computational 
complexity and processing delay for HT system. The stability 
of IIR filter is ensured using an equation error model. The 
virtual path is been selected from the database which has been 
created to store different virtual paths based on the dominant 
frequency of the leakage signal between the reference 
microphone and internal microphone. The proposed method 
provides better ear canal estimation and improved HT 
performance compared to other techniques with lower 
computational complexity. 
2. Proposed Virtual Sensing based HT 
System 
The 𝑥(𝑛) is signal received by the reference microphone and 
the pseudo-ambient signal captured at the internal microphone 
is given by 
 
𝑑′(𝑛) = 𝑝𝑒(𝑛) + 𝑦′(𝑛)                             (1) 
     Where the residual ambient sound signal due to passive 
attenuation by the device can be denoted as 𝑝𝑒(𝑛) and the 
compensating signal generated by the HT system is 𝑦′(𝑛).  To 
achieve our goal for HT system, ideally the pseudo ambient 
signal and the open ear signal must be equal i.e., 𝑑′(𝑛) = 𝑑(𝑛). 
The open ear response 𝑇̂(𝑧) is obtained using the IKS Open-
source dataset [24]. Since HT responses at internal microphone 
and eardrum are not identical, we utilize the virtual sensing 
technique.  
2.1. Remote microphone based virtual sensing technique 
using online secondary path of HT filter 
In order to obtain the HT EQ filter, we use remote microphone 
based virtual sensing technique to estimate the pseudo ambient 
signal at the ear drum of the user as shown in Fig. 1. Secondary 
path (𝑆(𝑧)) is the path between the secondary speaker and 
internal microphone, whereas virtual secondary path (𝑆𝑣(𝑧)) is 
the path between the secondary speaker and error mic at ear 
drum.  Primary path (𝑃(𝑧)) is the path between ambient sound 
source and the internal microphone respectively.  The mean 
square error signal minimized using the gradient descent 
method is given by  
𝐸[𝑒2(𝑛)] ≈0                                (2) 
The error signal at the eardrum can be given by 
𝑒(𝑛) = 𝑑(𝑛) −(𝑝𝑑(𝑛) + 𝑦′′(𝑛))                  (3) 
     Where, 𝑑(𝑛) is the open ear response, 𝑝𝑑(𝑛) is the residual 
ambient sound due to passive isolation at the error mic at ear 
drum of the user, and 𝑦′′(𝑛) is the compensation signal which 
can be given by 𝑦′′(𝑛) = 𝑦′(𝑛) ∗ℎ(𝑛). The ℎ(𝑛) is the virtual 
path or ear canal path, ∗ is the convolution operator and 𝑦′(𝑛) 
is the estimated compensation signal at the internal microphone 
which can be given by  
𝑦′(𝑛) = 𝑒′(𝑛) −(𝑦(𝑛) ∗𝑠̂(𝑛))                 (4) 
     Here, 𝑠̂(𝑛) denotes the estimate of the secondary path 
between the secondary speaker and internal microphone. The 
input signal to the loudspeaker is given by  
𝑦(𝑛) = 𝒘𝑇(𝑛)𝒙(𝑛)                         (5) 
where, 𝒘(𝑛) = [𝑤0(𝑛), 𝑤1(𝑛), … , 𝑤𝐿−1(𝑛)]𝑇 is the finite 
impulse response (FIR) EQ filter of length 𝐿. The input ambient 
signal from the feedforward microphone can be given by 
𝒙(𝑛) = [𝑥(𝑛), 𝑥(𝑛−1), … , 𝑥(𝑛−𝐿+ 1)]𝑇. Based on the 
generic 
formulation 
for 
filtered 
input-based 
adaptive 
algorithms, update equation can be formulated as 
𝒘(𝑛+ 1) = 𝒘(𝑛) + 𝜇 𝑓[𝑒(𝑛)] 𝒙′(𝑛)             (6) 
     From (6), 𝜇 is the step size of the algorithm and 𝒙′(𝑛) =
[𝑥′(𝑛), 𝑥′(𝑛−1), … , 𝑥′(𝑛−𝐿+ 1)]𝑇 is the tap delayed 
filtered input reference signal with  𝑥′(𝑛) = 𝑥(𝑛) ∗ 𝑠̂𝑣(𝑛). The  
𝑠𝑣(𝑛) is the virtual secondary path between the secondary 
speaker and the error mic at ear drum, and 𝑓[𝑒(𝑛)] is the error 
signal function that varies for different adaptive approaches. In 
many scenarios, secondary path varies due to different fittings 
of the user. So, we propose using online secondary path 
modelling-based approach. The excitation signal 𝑣(𝑛) is played 
through the device loudspeaker, which is independent of the 
ambient sound. The error signal can be modified as 
     𝑒(𝑛) = 𝑑(𝑛) −(𝑝𝑑(𝑛) + 𝑦′′(𝑛)) + 𝑣1′(𝑛).           (7) 
Figure 1:  Block diagram of the proposed HT EQ filter 
3116

     The estimated secondary path signal  𝑣′(𝑛) = 𝑣(𝑛) ∗𝑠(𝑛) 
and the corresponding secondary path is estimated using the 
LMS adaptive algorithm whose update equation can be given 
by 
𝒔̂(𝑛+ 1) = 𝒔̂(𝑛) + 𝜇𝑠𝑓1(𝑛)𝒗(𝑛)                   (8) 
     with 𝑓1(𝑛) = 𝑒′(𝑛) −𝑣′(𝑛) and  𝒗(𝑛) is the tap delayed 
excitation signal of the length equal to length of the estimated 
secondary path. The corresponding HT EQ filter can be given 
by             
𝒘(𝑛+ 1) = 𝒘(𝑛) + 𝜇 (𝑓[𝑒(𝑛)] 𝒙′(𝑛) + 𝑣1′(𝑛)𝒙′(𝑛))     (9) 
The virtual secondary path estimate can be similarly obtained 
as  
𝒔̂𝑣(𝑛+ 1) = 𝒔̂𝑣(𝑛) + 𝜇𝑠1𝑓2(𝑛)𝒗(𝑛)                   (10) 
Where, 𝑓2(𝑛) = 𝑒(𝑛) −𝑣1′(𝑛), virtual secondary path output 
𝑣1′(𝑛) = 𝑣1(𝑛) ∗𝑠𝑣(𝑛), 𝑣1(𝑛) = 𝑣(𝑛) ∗ℎ(𝑛) where ℎ(𝑛)  
being the virtual path. 
     In practical implementation, in order to obtain the HT EQ, 
the order of finite impulse response (FIR) of the EQ filter must 
be very large, which is not practical for low-latency 
applications in earbud devices. Hence, we propose infinite 
impulse response (IIR) based adaptive approach which can be 
approximated with smaller filter orders. The optimization 
function for the derivation of adaptive IIR filter coefficients is 
the mean square error signal obtained at the eardrum of the user 
represented as 
𝐸[𝑒2(𝑛)] ≈𝑒2(𝑛) ≈0                                 (11) 
     The E[.] is the expectation operator and it is minimized using 
the gradient descent algorithm to provide the optimal 
coefficients of the adaptive filter given by 
𝒃(𝑛+ 1) = 𝒃(𝑛) −𝜇𝜕𝑒2(𝑛)
𝜕𝑏
                              (12) 
𝒂(𝑛+ 1) = 𝒂(𝑛) −𝜇𝜕𝑒2(𝑛)
𝜕𝑎
                             (13) 
Where, 
𝜕𝑒2(𝑛)
𝜕𝑎
= 2𝑒(𝑛) 𝜕𝑒(𝑛)
𝜕𝑎,   
𝜕𝑒2(𝑛)
𝜕𝑏
= 2𝑒(𝑛) 𝜕𝑒(𝑛)
𝜕𝑏 .             (14) 
The error signal e(n) is given by 
𝑒(𝑛) = 𝑑(𝑛) −(𝑝𝑑(𝑛) + 𝑦′′(𝑛)) + 𝑣1′(𝑛),             (15)  
and   
𝑦′′(𝑛) = (𝑒′(𝑛) −∑
𝑏𝑖(𝑛)𝒙′(𝑛−𝑖) −
𝑃
𝑖=0
∑
𝑎𝑗(𝑛)𝒚′(𝑛−
𝑄
𝑗=1
𝑖) ∗𝑠̂(𝑛) ∗ℎ(𝑛).   (16) 
     Here, * is the convolution operator. Substituting equation 
(14) in (12) and (13), and solving using the equation error-based 
approach [28], weight update equations of the IIR adaptive 
filter can be derived as 
𝒃(𝑛+ 1) = 𝒃(𝑛) + 𝜇(𝑒(𝑛) 𝒙′(𝑛) + 𝑣1′(𝑛)𝒙′(𝑛))       (17) 
𝒂(𝑛+ 1) = 𝒂(𝑛) + 𝜇(𝑒(𝑛)𝒚′(𝑛) + 𝑣1′(𝑛)𝒙′(𝑛))      (18) 
     The limitations for the step size parameter (𝜇) can be derived 
by the similar procedure as described in [31] for further 
analysis. 
2.2. Generation of database of the virtual paths 
Due to the different anthropometric features of ears, the transfer 
function between the internal microphone (approximation of 
error microphone) and the eardrum microphone (ideal error 
microphone location) has to be modelled accurately. Typically, 
the length of the ear canal of the person varies from 23mm to 
29mm, and the dominant frequency of the ear canal changes 
correspondingly. 
The 
dominant 
frequency is 
inversely 
proportional to twice the length of ear canal for open ear 
response. However, for the occluded ear response the dominant 
frequency is inversely proportional to four times the length of 
ear canal. In this paper, we used leakage signal, which is 
computed using difference between the reference and internal 
microphone. The leakage signal’s dominant frequency is 
calculated for different fittings. The corresponding virtual path 
is determined using the adaptive system identification [29] 
approach for corresponding fitting based on the measured 
responses. The computed frequency, estimated ear canal length 
and estimated virtual path are stored during the pertaining stage. 
During the implementation phase, the dominant frequency of 
leakage signal is obtained to calculate ear canal length, and 
corresponding virtual path needs to be loaded in device memory 
as shown in Fig. 1. Considering the computational memory, and 
construction of earbuds, the virtual path length of 128 and total 
10 different characteristics of ear canal is taken. To store each 
frequency and length component of each virtual path, we 
require 2 bytes, and each virtual path of length 128 needs 256 
bytes of memory, so we need 2.5 kB of space to store the 
database in INT16 format on earbuds, which is reasonable 
storage for most earbuds based on our review. 
3. Results and Discussion 
To evaluate the performance of the proposed approach, we 
carry out the simulations at the sampling frequency of 16 kHz 
studying different effects. The state of art adaptive FIR used for 
comparison are sample based least mean square (LMS) 
algorithm, block based LMS and block based total least square 
(TLS) algorithms. 
3.1. Comparison of the HT EQ filter performance at 
the ear drum 
To compare the effect of virtual sensing on the HT playback of 
the earbuds, a white noise with zero mean and unit variance is 
used as an excitation signal. The absolute value of power 
spectral density (PSD) error is computed at eardrum with 
respect to open ear response is shown in Fig. 2. From Fig. 2, we 
can observe that proposed virtual sensing based technique has 
similar performance as the state-of-the-art lumped parameter 
Figure 2:  PSD performance at the eardrum compared to 
open ear response for different fittings 
3117

model [30] below 3 kHz frequency range. It has significantly 
less PSD error compared to that of lumped parameter-based ear 
canal model above 3 kHz range by more than 20 dB for certain 
frequencies between 4 to 8 kHz. With our proposed ear canal 
modelling technique combined with IIR filtering, the 
performance improves slightly above 3 kHz without ear 
modelling, with maximum benefit of our proposed technique 
around 5.5 kHz with about 3 to 6 dB lesser error compared to 
existing techniques. 
3.2. Proposed HT-EQ filter evaluation for white noise and 
simulated acoustic environments 
3.2.1. Experiment-I: White noise signal 
The HT performance is evaluated using the mean square error 
(MSE). Using white noise signal of length 10s, it can be 
observed from Fig. 4(a) that proposed IIR filter was able to 
achieve low MSE compared to existing algorithms, however, 
convergence was slightly slower in some cases due to addition 
of filter stability criterion compared to state-of-the-art adaptive 
FIR filters.  
3.2.2. Experiment-II: Simulated Acoustic environments 
To evaluate the performance of proposed algorithm in real-
world scenarios, complex indoor and outdoor acoustic 
environments are simulated. In all cases, the elevation for 
directional sources is taken to be at 0°. The outdoor 
environment had the user listening to siren on a vehicle moving 
at constant speed of 15 km/hr from azimuthal direction of 00 to 
1500, together with a diffuse wind signal, and a speech signal 
from a speaker situated at 750 azimuth. For simulating an 
indoor environment, the user is listening to music from a 
loudspeaker at 600 together with diffuse construction noise, 
and distant sound of car passing by on the road from 0° to 150° 
azimuth at 15 km/hr, to mimic car sound passing by a window. 
Fig. 3 shows the pole plot for the simulated acoustic 
environments and the white noise signal. The proposed IIR 
filter is stable for simulated indoor and outdoor acoustic 
environments, with all poles lying inside unit circle as shown in 
Fig. 3. The Fig. 4 (b) and (c) shows the MSE plot for outdoor 
and indoor cases respectively, where the blue lines represent the 
DoA switching for siren and car sounds. It can be observed that 
proposed technique is able to track the changes in the sound 
with lower MSE compared to other state-of-the art adaptive FIR 
algorithms, and fixed IIR filter in both the indoor and outdoor 
cases. 
3.2.3. Computational complexity analysis 
The computational complexity for all the algorithms is shown 
in Table I. Here, 𝐿𝑣 is the length of the virtual path taken as 128, 
𝐿𝑠 is the length of secondary path which is also taken as 128, 
𝐿𝑤 is the length of FIR adaptive filter taken as 256, 𝐿𝑎, and 𝐿𝑏 
are the number of poles and zeros of the proposed IIR filter, 
which are taken as 30 each. It can be depicted that proposed 
approach has lower MAC operations compared to other state-
of-art adaptive FIR filters by more than 34%. 
4. Conclusion 
In this paper, an IIR adaptive HT EQ filter using the remote 
microphone based virtual sensing technique has been described. 
The proposed virtual sensing technique combined with adaptive 
IIR technique reduces the computational complexity in terms of 
MAC operations by about 34%, while improving the HT 
performance by about 10-20 dB for white noise signals and 
simulated real world environments over existing state-of-the-art 
adaptive FIR techniques and fixed IIR filters. Our proposed 
method also improves the ear canal modelling performance 
over existing lumped parameter methods above 3 kHz range. 
Future works can consider a utilizing a bigger database of 
eardrum responses across multiple users and fittings to derive 
the estimated response, and further evaluation of adaptive IIR 
filter techniques in different complex real-world acoustic 
environments. 
5. References 
[1] "Hearable devices—Global market trajectory & analytics", Apr. 
2021. 
Table I. Computational Complexity 
 
Algorithm 
MAC Computation 
MACs 
FxLMS 
4𝐿𝑣+ 6𝐿𝑠+ 4𝐿𝑤+4 
2308 
FxBLMS 
4𝐿𝑣+ 6𝐿𝑠+ 4𝐿𝑤+4 
2308 
FxBTLS 
4𝐿𝑣+ 6𝐿𝑠+ 5𝐿𝑤+6 
2565 
Fixed IIR filter 
2𝐿𝑣+ 2𝐿𝑠+ 2𝐿𝑎+
2𝐿𝑏+5 
637 
Proposed IIR 
adaptive filter 
4𝑳𝒗+ 𝟔𝑳𝒔+ 𝟒𝑳𝒂+
𝟒𝑳𝒃+5 
1525 
 
Figure 3:  Pole plot of the proposed IIR filters, which is 
stable with all poles inside the unit circle for white noise, 
simulated indoor, and outdoor environments signals 
 
 
Figure 4: MSE performance comparison for proposed 
adaptive IIR filter with state-of-the-art adaptive FIR and 
fixed IIR filter for (a) white noise, (b) simulated outdoor 
and (c) simulated indoor environments  
3118

 
[2] R. Miyahara, K. Oosugi and A. Sugiyama, "A hearing device with 
an adaptive noise canceller for noise-robust voice input,", IEEE Trans. 
Consum. Electron., vol. 65, no. 4, pp. 444-453, Nov. 2019. 
 
[3] "Earphones and headphones market—Global outlook and forecast 
2021-2026", Apr. 2021. 
 
[4] M. C. Killion, “Myths that discourage improvements in hearing aid 
design,” Hearing Review, vol. 11, no. 4, pp. 32–70, 2004.  
 
[5] R. Sockalingam, J. Beilin, and D. L. Beck, “Sound quality 
considerations of hearing instruments,” Hearing Review, vol. 16, no. 9, 
pp. 22–28, 2009. 
 
[6] V. Valimaki, A. Franck, J. Ramo, H. Gamper and L. Savioja, 
"Assisted listening using a headset: Enhancing audio perception in real 
augmented and virtual environments,", IEEE Signal Process. Mag., 
vol. 32, no. 2, pp. 92-99, Mar. 2015. 
 
[7] C.-Y. Chang, A. Siswanto, C.-Y. Ho, T.-K. Yeh, Y.-R. Chen and S. 
M. Kuo, "Listening in a noisy environment: Integration of active noise 
control in audio products,", IEEE Consum. Electron. Mag., vol. 5, no. 
4, pp. 34-43, Oct. 2016. 
 
[8] M. T. Khan and R. A. Shaik, "High-performance hardware design 
of block LMS adaptive noise canceller for in-ear headphones,", IEEE 
Consum. Electron. Mag., vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 105-113, May 2020. 
 
[9] R. Ranjan and W.-S. Gan, "Natural listening over headphones in 
augmented reality using adaptive filtering techniques,", IEEE/ACM 
Trans. Audio Speech Language Process., vol. 23, no. 11, pp. 1988-
2002, Nov. 2015. 
 
[10] S.-N. Yao, "Headphone-based immersive audio for virtual reality 
headsets,", IEEE Trans. Consum. Electron., vol. 63, no. 3, pp. 300-308, 
Aug. 2017. 
 
[11] R. Gupta, R. Ranjan, J. He, W.-S. Gan and S. Peksi, "Acoustic 
transparency in hearables for augmented reality audio: Hear-through 
techniques review and challenges,", Proc. AES Int. Conf. AVAR, pp. 3-
7, Aug. 2020. 
 
[12] J. Ramo and V. Valimaki, "An allpass hear-through 
headset", Proc. 22nd Eur. Signal Process. Conf. (EUSIPCO), pp. 1123-
1127, Sep. 2014. 
 
[13] J. Ramo and V. Valimaki, "Digital augmented reality audio 
headset", J. Electr. Comput. Eng., vol. 2012, pp. 1-13, Oct. 2012. 
 
[14] W.-S. Gan, J. He, R. Ranjan and R. Gupta, "Natural and augmented 
listening for VR and AR/MR", Proc. ICASSP Tutorial, Apr. 2018. 
 
[15] V. Patel, J. Cheer and S. Fontana, "Design and implementation of 
an active noise control headphone with directional hear-through 
capability,", IEEE Trans. Consum. Electron., vol. 66, no. 1, pp. 32-40, 
Feb. 2020. 
 
[16] Y. Zhuang and Y. Liu, "A constrained optimal hear-through filter 
design approach for earphones,", Proc. 50th Int. Congr. Expo. Noise 
Control Eng. (INTERNOISE), pp. 1329-1337, Aug. 2021. 
 
[17] R. Gupta, R. Ranjan, J. He and W.-S. Gan, "Parametric hear 
through equalization for augmented reality audio,", Proc. IEEE 44th 
Int. Conf. Acoust. Speech Signal Process. (ICASSP), pp. 1587-1591, 
May 2019. 
 
[18] W. Jin, T. Schoof and H. Schepker, "Individualized hear-through 
for acoustic transparency using PCA-based sound pressure estimation 
at the eardrum,", Proc. IEEE 47th Int. Conf. Acoust. Speech Signal 
Process. (ICASSP), pp. 341-345, May 2022. 
 
[19] H. Hudee and C. Weistenhofer, "Circuit models of middle ear 
function," The Function and Mechanics of Normal, Diseased and 
Reconstructed Middle Ears (2000): 39-58. 
 
[20] D. Sinev, M. Fontbonne, K. Mick, H. Foudhaili, and J. Peissig, 
“An Ear Canal Transmission Model Applied to an Ear Simulator and 
Compared to Finite Element Modelling,” IEEE Immersive and 3D 
Audio: from Architecture to Automotive (I3DA) (pp. 1-9), Sep. 2021. 
 
[21] M. R. Stinson and G. A. Daigle. "Comparison of an analytic horn 
equation approach and a boundary element method for the calculation 
of sound fields in the human ear canal," The Journal of the Acoustical 
Society of America 118.4 (2005): 2405-2411. 
 
[22] M. Reo, and Y. Kajikawa, Comparisons of two virtual sensing 
methods for broadband noise. Universitätsbibliothek der RWTH 
Aachen, 2019. 
 
[23] Y. Kajkawa and C. Shi, "Comparison of the virtual sensing 
techniques for broadband feedforward active noise control,"  
International Conference on control, Automation and Information 
Sciences, Oct 2023, pp. 1-5.  
 
[24] C. R. Huang, C. Y. Chang and S. M. Kuo, "Time-Shift Modeling-
Based Hear-Through System for In-Ear Headphones," in IEEE 
Transactions on Consumer Electronics, vol. 68, no. 3, pp. 273-280, 
Aug. 2022, doi: 10.1109/TCE.2022.3190422. 
 
[25] H. Hudde, A. Engel, and A. Lodwig. "Methods for estimating the 
sound pressure at the eardrum," The Journal of the Acoustical Society 
of America 106.4 (1999): 1977-1992. 
 
[26] B.K. Mohanty and P. K. Meher, " A high performance energy 
efficient architecture for FIR adaptive filter based on new distributed 
arithmetic formulation of block LMS algorithm," IEEE Transactions 
on Signal Processing, vol. 61, no.4,  pp.921-932, Oct 2012 
 
[27] Y. Chen, and H. Zhao. "Improved robust total least squares 
adaptive filter algorithms using hyperbolic secant function," IEEE 
Transactions on Circuits and Systems II: Express Briefs 69.9 (2022): 
3944-3948. 
 
[28] C. Y. Ho, K. K. Shyu, C. Y. Chang,  and S. M. Kuo. 
“Development of equation-error adaptive IIR-filter-based active noise 
control system,” Applied Acoustics, 163, 107226 (2020).  
 
[29] S. S. Bhattacharjee and N. V. George, "Nearest Kronecker 
Product Decomposition Based Normalized Least Mean Square 
Algorithm," ICASSP 2020 - 2020 IEEE International Conference on 
Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP).  
 
[30] M, Hiipakka, “Measurement apparatus and modelling techniques 
of ear canal acoustics,” Ph.D. thesis, Helsinki University of 
Technology, Espoo, Finland.  
 
 
 
  
  
 
3119

