warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Sub-band based Adaptive IIR Algorithm with Biquad Filter Stability 
Constraints for Feedforward Hear-Through Equalization 
Rishabh Gupta1, M L N S Karthik1, Chelamkuri Omsrinath1 
1Samsung Research Institute, Bangalore, India 
rishabh.g@samsung.com, mk.srinivas@samsung.com, c.omsrinath@samsung.com 
 
 
Abstract 
Hear through (HT) filter is designed to provide a listening 
experience similar to open ear listening. The key challenge in 
the design of the HT filter is to ensure low processing delay to 
closely match the open ear response. Existing adaptive HT 
approaches such as adaptive finite impulse response (FIR) and 
neural network-based approaches can lead to higher processing 
delays. This paper proposes a sub-band based infinite impulse 
response (IIR) adaptive feedforward equalization method to 
improve the HT and convergence performance for sound 
sources incident from different directions. To ensure IIR filter 
stability, we propose inclusion of stability constraint based on 
least mean square fourth criterion. The proposed method 
improves performance over existing methods up to 13 dB for 
simulated outdoor and indoor scenarios, while maintaining 
stability and similar complexity as existing adaptive IIR and 
FIR techniques in simulated complex indoor and outdoor real-
world acoustic environments.  
Index Terms: Adaptive IIR filtering, Hear-through, Sub-band 
approach, feedforward systems 
1. Introduction 
The advancements in the audio technology have led to 
development of smart hearing assistive devices like hearing 
aids, headphones and ear buds. These devices provide highly 
immersive music playback, active noise control (ANC) and 
transparent mode in the hearing devices enhancing the comfort 
and situational awareness of the users [1-6]. While using 
earbuds or headphones, the external sounds are usually 
attenuated due to physical design of the earbuds [7, 8]. The 
main aim of transparency mode is to ensure that user has a 
listening experience similar to the open ear.  This ensures the 
users can listen to different important external sounds like 
horns, conversations and emergency sirens etc. [5, 9]. The basic 
design of Hear-through (HT) system typically utilizes a 
reference microphone to capture the external signal, 
loudspeaker to play the pseudo-ambient signal and the error 
microphone to measure the signal near the ear drum. The signal 
captured from the reference microphone is processed by the HT 
filter and is played back through the loud speaker. This loud 
speaker signal is then combined with the passive isolated signal 
to generate the estimated ambient sound at the eardrum of the 
user [11].  
     Previous studies have mainly utilized FIR or IIR based 
fixed-filters for HT processing. Ramo and Valimiki developed 
an HT equalization (EQ) filter derived using the all-pass 
principle and analyzed the comb filtering effects [12, 13]. 
Zhaung 
et 
al. 
evaluated 
a 
frequency 
domain-based 
implementation of HT EQ filter using similar constraints as 
ANC system design [14]. Some recent studies have also 
proposed adaptive FIR filters for improving acoustic 
transparency [9,15,16]. Ranjan and Gan evaluated the acoustic 
isolation caused by the open-back headphone devices and 
proposed EQ filtering using the adaptive FIR-based FxNLMS 
algorithms [9]. Patel et al. proposed a super directive 
beamformer using multi-reference feedforward control-based 
technique where the beampattern is steered towards the 
direction of ambient sound source [15]. Huang et.al. developed 
a Least Mean Square (LMS) based adaptive FIR filter combined 
with shaping filter for HT in insert type headphones [16]. Some 
studies have also explored combining Neural Network (NN) 
and dimensionality reduction techniques with FIR/IIR filtering  
to improve performance. In previous work, we proposed a 
parametric HT equalization based on shallow neural networks 
to compute direction of arrival for ambient sound and 
corresponding HT equalization filter selected from a database 
of pre-computed directional HT filters [25]. Jin et al. developed 
an individualized HT fixed FIR filter using the Principle 
Component Analysis (PCA) method to estimate the sound 
pressure at eardrum [18].  
     While the fixed-filter approaches utilized in past studies can 
lead to reduced computational complexity, they suffer from 
poor performance in dynamic real-world scenarios, such as 
stationary or moving sound sources from multiple directions, 
diffused sounds etc. Most of the previous adaptive filtering 
approaches utilize FIR filters, which provide enhanced stability 
and linear-phase characteristic desired for ambient filtering. 
However, the increased computational complexity can lead to 
additional processing delays and comb-filtering effects. The use 
of the IIR filters is more preferable as it can achieve similar 
performance to FIR filters with comparatively lower filter 
orders [19]. In this study, we propose a sub-band based adaptive 
IIR filter method for modelling the feedforward paths for 
ambient filters. Additionally, an all-pass biquad filter is 
cascaded to each adaptive IIR filter to compensate for 
additional phase and group delay caused during IIR filter 
weight stacking process during the adaptation. Furthermore, a 
novel constraint based on the combination of the stability 
triangle and least mean square fourth order update equation in 
terms of biquad coefficients is proposed. The proposed 
approach evaluated on different signals such as tonal, 
bandlimited white noise and complex signals simulating the 
real-world dynamic indoor and outdoor acoustic scenarios 
demonstrated superior performance compared to state-of-the art 
(SOTA) methods. 
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
3120
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2533

2. Proposed Approach 
Figure 1 shows the generic block diagram of the hear-through 
equalization system. The ambient signal captured by the 
feedforward microphone is denoted by 𝑥(𝑛), acoustic path 
from the sound source(s) to the feedforward microphone is 
denoted by 𝑃(𝑧) , and the reference open ear response is 
denoted as 𝐷(𝑧). 𝑆(𝑧) denotes the secondary path between the 
device loudspeaker and the eardrum, whereas the ambient filter 
is denoted as 𝑊(𝑧). 
     To ensure causality, a delay ∆ is introduced in open ear 
response path to model for the total processing delay for the HT 
system. The so-called pseudo ambient signal 𝑑′(𝑛) received at 
the user’s eardrum is denoted as  
 
𝑑′(𝑛)= 𝑑1(𝑛) + 𝑦′(𝑛) 
(1) 
 
where 𝑑1(𝑛) denotes the leaked real signal and 𝑦’(𝑛) denotes 
the ambient signal played back through the device 
loudspeakers. To achieve acoustic transparency using the 
ambient filter 𝑊(𝑧), we need to minimize the error signal 𝑒(𝑛) 
as per mean square error criterion 
𝑒(𝑛) = 𝑑(𝑛−∆) −𝑑′(𝑛) 
(2) 
 
     Using Z-transform in frequency domain, the optimal 
ambient filter 𝑊𝑜(𝑧)  can be represented as  
 
𝑊𝑜(𝑧) = 𝐷(𝑧)𝑧−∆−𝑃(𝑧)
𝑆(𝑧)
 
(3) 
 
     Since 𝑆(𝑧) is non-minimum phase filter, the direct inversion 
can lead to a non-causal 𝑊𝑜(𝑧) filter. Hence, we propose to 
utilize a sub-band based adaptive approach for computing the 
ambient filter as shown in Fig. 2. The ambient signal 𝑥(𝑛) and 
error signal 𝑒(𝑛) are decomposed into 𝑃 sub-bands using a 
decimation filter-bank is represented as 𝐴(𝑧) with decimation 
factor 𝑝. Each decimation filter 𝑎𝑝(𝑛) can be represented as 
 
𝑎𝑝(𝑛) = 𝑎(𝑛)𝑒𝑗2𝜋𝑝𝑛/𝑃 
(4) 
 
     The sub-band signals for ambient and error signals are used 
for adaptation of the corresponding biquad filter coefficients 
using the following update equation as per the least mean 
square fourth (LMS/F) moment criterion 
 
𝑤𝑝(𝑛+ 𝑃) = 𝑤𝑝(𝑛) + 𝜇𝑓(𝑒𝑝(𝑛))𝑥𝑝′ (𝑛) 
(5) 
     Where,  𝑓(𝑒𝑝(𝑛)) =
𝑒𝑝3(𝑛)
𝑒𝑝2(𝑛)+𝛾, 𝑒𝑝(𝑛) is the error signal of 
each sub-band, step size is indicated as 𝜇, and 𝛾 indicates 
threshold value [21]. The numerator coefficients of the biquad 
filter can be updated as 
𝑏𝑝(𝑛+ 𝑃) = 𝑏𝑝(𝑛) + 𝜇𝑓(𝑒𝑝(𝑛))𝑥𝑝′ (𝑛) 
(6) 
 
     The least mean square/fourth (LMS/F) criterion is used since 
it has been shown in previous studies to lead to fast convergence 
and lower steady state error compared to other traditional LMS 
approaches [21]. The generic optimization function for each 
sub-band based on LMS/F can be represented as 
 
min
𝑊𝑝𝑒𝑝2(𝑛) −𝛾ln (𝑒𝑝2(𝑛) + 𝛾) 
(7) 
 
     However, an unconstrained LMS/F formulation can lead to 
IIR filter instability. In next section, we propose constraints for 
above optimization problem to ensure stability of IIR filters and 
present theoretical and empirical analysis for the proposed 
approach.  
2.1 Deriving constraints to ensure stability of IIR filters  
IIR filters can become unstable if poles lie outside the unit 
circle. The traditional method for utilizing an all-pass filter 
involves mirroring the unstable poles and placing it in cascade 
with minimum-phase filter. However, it leads to additional 
complexity and can result in undesired modifications to the 
overall phase of the HT filter. To ensure stability, we utilize the 
stability criterion for biquad filters utilized in previous studies, 
i.e., all poles must lie within the stability triangle [19]. To avoid 
quasi-stable conditions, we use a stricter stability criterion 
given as  
 𝑎0,𝑝(𝑛)=1, |𝑎2,𝑝(𝑛)|< 1 and |𝑎1,𝑝(𝑛)|< 1+𝑎2,𝑝(𝑛)  
(8) 
 
     Where,  𝑎0,𝑝(𝑛), 𝑎1,𝑝(𝑛) and 𝑎2,𝑝(𝑛) are the coefficients for 
the biquad IIR filter corresponding to the filter poles. Using the 
above criterion, the optimization function can be represented as  
 
𝑔(𝑎1,𝑝(𝑛), 𝑎2.𝑝(𝑛))
= (|𝑎1,𝑝(𝑛)| − 1 −𝑎2,𝑝(𝑛))
+ 𝑠𝑖𝑔𝑛(𝑎2,𝑝(𝑛)) (|𝑎2,𝑝(𝑛)| −1) 
 
(9) 
The resulting filter design problem is represented as a non-
linear optimization function with linear constraints  
min
𝑊𝑝{𝑒𝑝2(𝑛) −𝛾ln(𝑒𝑝2(𝑛) + 𝛾) +
𝑔(𝑎1,𝑝(𝑛), 𝑎2,𝑝(𝑛))}  
w.r.t ‖𝑎𝑝(𝑛+ 1) −𝑎𝑝(𝑛)‖2
2 ≤𝜖 
(10) 
 
Figure 2: Adaptive IIR filtering algorithm with 
delay-less sub-band modelling  
 
Figure 1: Hear-through filtering system 
3121

Using Lagrange’s method, we can rewrite the above 
optimization function as  
 
𝐽(𝑛) = 𝑒𝑝2(𝑛) −𝛾ln (𝑒𝑝2(𝑛) +
𝛾)+ 𝑔(𝑎1,𝑝(𝑛), 𝑎2,𝑝(𝑛))+ 𝜏(‖𝑎𝑝(𝑛+ 1) −
𝑎𝑝(𝑛)‖2
2 −𝜖) 
 
(11) 
On solving the above equation, we can obtain the update 
equation in terms of filter coefficients as 
 
𝑎1,𝑝(𝑛+ 1)
= 𝑎1,𝑝(𝑛)
−
𝜖[𝑓(𝑒𝑝(𝑛))𝑦𝑝
′(𝑛−1) + 𝑠𝑖𝑔𝑛(𝑎1,𝑝(𝑛)]
‖𝑓(𝑒𝑝(𝑛))(𝑦𝑝′(𝑛−1) + 𝑦𝑝′((𝑛−2)) + 𝑠𝑖𝑔𝑛(𝑎1,𝑝(𝑛))‖
2
 
 
(12) 
𝑎2,𝑝(𝑛+ 1)
= 𝑎2,𝑝(𝑛)
−
𝜖[[𝑓(𝑒𝑝(𝑛))𝑦𝑝
′((𝑛−2)]]
‖𝑓(𝑒𝑝(𝑛))(𝑦𝑝′(𝑛−1) + 𝑦𝑝′((𝑛−2)) + 1 ∗𝑠𝑖𝑔𝑛(𝑎1,𝑝(𝑛))‖
 
(13) 
 
 
     The above constraints ensure stability for each biquad filter 
corresponding to particular sub-band, thus ensuring overall 
filter stability. The obtained IIR filters are cascaded with the all-
pass filters and weight stacking to compensate for the group 
delay and phase delay modification of the overall system [24]. 
For 𝑝𝑡ℎ sub-band filter, 𝜖 parameter is estimated using the 
approximation for convergence speed derived in [20] as 
  
𝑒𝑝2(𝑛)
𝑒𝑝2(𝑛+ 1) ≈(1 −𝜖𝜆𝑘)−2 
(14) 
 
where 𝜆𝑘 is the eigenvalue associated with update of the error 
signal. If 𝜖 is assigned large values, the LMS/F algorithm may 
diverge. However, if 𝜖𝜆𝑘≪1, convergence rate will be very 
slow, leading to higher steady state error. Hence, 𝜖 must be 
fine-tuned to achieve desired performance and convergence 
speed.  
3. Experiments and Results 
To evaluate the performance of the proposed approach, we 
carry out the simulation experiments at the sampling frequency 
of 16 kHz. We evaluated the performance of the proposed 
algorithms compared to SOTA adaptive FIR and IIR algorithms 
such as Filtered-x Block based Least Mean Square fourth order 
(FxBLMS/F) [21], equation error-based adaptive IIR [22], 
delayless sub-band based FIR filter [23]. We also compared the 
performance of proposed algorithm with sub-band based fixed-
filter approaches. 
3.1 Different Test signals - Single Sound Source Direction  
To benchmark the performance of proposed adaptive IIR filter 
with different signal types, we utilized three stimuli with 
different frequency contents convolved with feedforward 
primary path for single source direction (0° elevation and 0° 
azimuth). For evaluating performance in different frequency 
regions, we utilized multi-tone and bandlimited white noise 
signals, whereas white noise signal was used to evaluate the 
broadband performance. The multi-tone signal consisted of sine 
tones at intervals of 500 Hz, starting from frequency of 500 Hz 
up to 2500 Hz to evaluate performance in regions most sensitive 
to tonal signals around 1kHz to 2 kHz. For narrowband signal 
evaluation, we utilized a combination of the multi-tone 
sinusoidal signals in 2 kHz to 3 kHz range together with the 
bandlimited white noise signal with bandwidth 5 kHz to 6 kHz. 
For evaluating performance with broadband signals, we utilized 
a white noise signal with frequency content in 60 Hz to 8 kHz 
range. The performance of proposed adaptive algorithms 
compared to the SOTA adaptive algorithms is shown in Fig. 3 
for the three test signals. As seen from the graph, the proposed 
sub-band IIR filter has lowest steady-state mean square error 
(SS-MSE) of -50 dB or lower compared to the state-of-the-art 
fixed and adaptive algorithms for all the three test stimuli. The 
proposed approach shows improved performance over the 
delay-less sub-band FIR filtering techniques, which performs 
best among the SOTA methods. The proposed sub-band IIR 
filter is derived considering the stability constraints of the IIR 
filter and a fixed secondary path. For multi-tone and white noise 
signals, though the proposed algorithm performed best in terms 
of SS-MSE, the convergence time was longer compared to 
other SOTA algorithms. This could be due to multiple reasons, 
such as slower convergence in some sub-bands compared to 
others or selection of appropriate parameters, namely step size, 
and threshold parameters. The convergence performance of the 
existing algorithms such as delay-less sub-band FIR and 
equation error IIR was similar to the proposed algorithm in 
some cases.  
3.2 Simulation of Dynamic Real Scenarios – Indoor and 
Outdoor Environments with multiple source directions 
An outdoor environment is simulated for left ear with all sound 
sources located at 0° elevation, where user is listening to a 
sound of vehicle engine which is moving with constant speed 
of 15 km/hour with direction of arrival (DoA) (00 to 1200 
Fig. 3. MSE performance comparison for proposed vs state-of-the-art algorithms for different signals: (a) Multi-tone (500 Hz-2500 
Hz); (b) Multi-tone (2kHz-3 kHz) with bandlimited white noise (5kHz -6 kHz range); (c) Broadband White noise (60 Hz to 8 kHz)  
(a)
(b)
(c)
3122

azimuth), experiencing a diffuse airplane signal with DoA of 50 
resolution, a speech of person standing at fixed position with 
DoA of 750 azimuth and music played from two directions, 
450 and 1350 azimuth respectively. For simulating a complex 
indoor environment with all sound sources located at 0 ° 
elevation, the user is assumed to be sitting in a conference room 
with announcement coming from loudspeaker across room at 
DoA of 450 azimuth, a person moving across the room and 
talking from DoA of 00 to 1200 azimuth, a cell phone ring tone 
and drilling sound coming from the outside the room at DoA 
of  600 and 1200, respectively. As observed from MSE plots in 
Fig. 4, proposed technique is able to track the changes in the 
sound sources with lower MSE compared to other state-of-the 
art adaptive FIR algorithms, sub-band FIR algorithm and fixed 
IIR filters for both the indoor and outdoor cases. The average 
MSE of the proposed approach is lower by about 13 dB and 21 
dB respectively for simulated outdoor and indoor environments 
compared to that of best performing SOTA algorithm. Further, 
Fig. 4 also shows the Nyquist plot for the proposed method in 
both indoor and outdoor scenarios with positive numbers of 
encirclements around the point (-1,0). The gain margin and the 
phase margin of the both outdoor and indoor environments is 
10.48 dB, 310.850 and 9.53 dB, 270.580 respectively, 
demonstrating that the proposed IIR filter is stable for complex 
dynamic scenarios. Fig. 5 shows the spectral error and impulse 
responses of the open ear and estimated open ear signals. It is 
observed that proposed HT filter has low spectral error between 
the frequency range of 200 Hz to 6 kHz and higher spectral error 
at frequencies below 200 Hz. Additionally, lesser delay is also 
observed between estimated and measured open ear responses 
with proposed approach. 
3.3 Computational Complexity Analysis 
The computational complexity of the proposed adaptive IIR 
approach compared to state-of-the-art adaptive algorithms in 
terms of the number of MAC operations (multiply accumulate 
and add) is shown in the Table I. In Table 1, 𝐿 denotes the 
length of FIR filter, 𝑁 denotes the length of the estimated 
secondary path, whereas 𝐿𝑏 and 𝐿𝑎denotes the length of 
coefficients for IIR filters respectively, and P denotes number 
of sub-bands. For the MAC computation shown in Table 1, the 
MAC operations include the total computation related to the 
feedforward ambient filter, namely computation of weights as 
per the update equation, convolution of the computed filter 
weights with the input signal, filtering operation through the 
secondary path (assumed as fixed path in this paper), and 
estimation of the error signal. As shown in the table 1, the 
proposed adaptive sub-band based IIR filter has the similar 
complexity in terms of MAC operations as the SOTA methods.  
4. Conclusions 
In this paper, a sub-band IIR adaptive HT EQ filter using the 
FxLMS/F combined with biquad stability constraint has been 
developed to improve performance for feedforward ambient 
filter control. The proposed sub-band adaptive IIR technique 
achieved superior HT performance for tonal, bandlimited and 
broadband white noise signals over existing state-of-the-art 
fixed IIR and adaptive IIR and FIR techniques in terms of mean 
square error. The proposed algorithm was evaluated on 
simulated complex real-world indoor and outdoor scenarios, 
where the proposed algorithm showed average performance 
improvements of 13 and 21 dB respectively over existing 
models, while maintaining stability in challenging dynamic 
scenarios. Future works can focus on hardware implementation 
of proposed sub-band adaptive algorithm for real-time 
evaluation. 
Table 1: Computational Complexity for Adaptive 
Algorithms 
Algorithm 
Computation Formula 
MAC 
FxBLMS/F 
(FIR) 
4𝐿+ 2𝑁+ 5 
 
645 
 
Delayless 
Sub-band 
(FIR) 
8(log2 𝑃)+(1+
2
𝑃)(
16𝐿+2𝑁
𝑃
)+
8𝐿
𝑃[(2 +
4
𝑃) log2
4𝑁
𝑃+ log2 𝐿] 
2220 
 
Equation 
Error 
(IIR) 
4𝐵+ 4𝐴+ 6𝑁−1 
 
619 
Proposed 
Adaptive 
Sub-band 
IIR filter 
𝑃{𝑃𝑙𝑜𝑔2𝑃
+ (1
+ 2
𝑃) [16𝐿𝑎+ 16𝐿𝑏+ 𝑁+ 2
𝑃
]
+ 16𝐿𝑎+ 16𝐿𝑏
𝑃
[(2
+ 4
𝑃) log2
4(𝐿𝑎+ 𝐿𝑏)
𝑃
+ log2(𝐿𝑎+ 𝐿𝑏)]} 
704 
N = 64, L = 128, P = 8, B = 30, A = 29, 𝐿𝑎=3, 𝐿𝑏=2 
Fig. 4: MSE Performance Benchmarking for simulated 
environments (top) and stability analysis of proposed 
algorithm (Bottom); Simulated indoor environments (left), 
Simulated outdoor environment (right) 
Fig. 5: Mean and Median Spectral error (Left), Measured 
and Estimated open ear impulse response at different 
source directions (Right) 
Open ear response
Estimated open ear response
3123

5. References 
[1] "Hearable devices—Global market trajectory & analytics", Apr. 
2021. 
 
[2] "Earphones and headphones market—Global outlook and forecast 
2021-2026", Apr. 2021. 
 
[3] M. C. Killion, “Myths that discourage improvements in hearing aid 
design,” Hearing Review, vol. 11, no. 4, pp. 32–70, 2004.  
 
[4] R. Sockalingam, J. Beilin, and D. L. Beck, “Sound quality 
considerations of hearing instruments,” Hearing Review, vol. 16, no. 9, 
pp. 22–28, 2009. 
 
[5] V. Valimaki, A. Franck, J. Ramo, H. Gamper and L. Savioja, 
"Assisted listening using a headset: Enhancing audio perception in real 
augmented and virtual environments,", IEEE Signal Process. Mag., 
vol. 32, no. 2, pp. 92-99, Mar. 2015. 
 
[6] W.-S. Gan, J. He, R. Ranjan and R. Gupta, "Natural and augmented 
listening for VR and AR/MR,", Proc. ICASSP Tutorial, Apr. 2018. 
 
[7] C.-Y. Chang, A. Siswanto, C.-Y. Ho, T.-K. Yeh, Y.-R. Chen and S. 
M. Kuo, "Listening in a noisy environment: Integration of active noise 
control in audio products,", IEEE Consum. Electron. Mag., vol. 5, no. 
4, pp. 34-43, Oct. 2016. 
 
[8] M. T. Khan and R. A. Shaik, "High-performance hardware design 
of block LMS adaptive noise canceller for in-ear headphones,", IEEE 
Consum. Electron. Mag., vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 105-113, May 2020. 
 
[9] R. Ranjan and W.-S. Gan, "Natural listening over headphones in 
augmented reality using adaptive filtering techniques,", IEEE/ACM 
Trans. Audio Speech Language Process., vol. 23, no. 11, pp. 1988-
2002, Nov. 2015. 
 
[10] S.-N. Yao, "Headphone-based immersive audio for virtual reality 
headsets,", IEEE Trans. Consum. Electron., vol. 63, no. 3, pp. 300-308, 
Aug. 2017. 
 
[11] R. Gupta, R. Ranjan, J. He, W.-S. Gan and S. Peksi, "Acoustic 
transparency in hearables for augmented reality audio: Hear-through 
techniques review and challenges,", Proc. AES Int. Conf. AVAR, pp. 3-
7, Aug. 2020. 
 
[12] J. Ramo and V. Valimaki, "An allpass hear-through 
headset,", Proc. 22nd Eur. Signal Process. Conf. (EUSIPCO), pp. 
1123-1127, Sep. 2014. 
 
[13] J. Ramo and V. Valimaki, "Digital augmented reality audio 
headset,", J. Electr. Comput. Eng., vol. 2012, pp. 1-13, Oct. 2012. 
 
[14] Y. Zhuang and Y. Liu, "A constrained optimal hear-through filter 
design approach for earphones,", Proc. 50th Int. Congr. Expo. Noise 
Control Eng. (INTERNOISE), pp. 1329-1337, Aug. 2021. 
 
[15] V. Patel, J. Cheer and S. Fontana, "Design and implementation of 
an active noise control headphone with directional hear-through 
capability,", IEEE Trans. Consum. Electron., vol. 66, no. 1, pp. 32-40, 
Feb. 2020. 
 
[16] C. R. Huang, C. Y. Chang and S. M. Kuo, "Time-Shift Modeling-
Based Hear-Through System for In-Ear Headphones," in IEEE 
Transactions on Consumer Electronics, vol. 68, no. 3, pp. 273-280, 
Aug. 2022, doi: 10.1109/TCE.2022.3190422. 
 
[17] Y. Zhuang and Y. Liu, "A constrained optimal hear-through filter 
design approach for earphones,", Proc. 50th Int. Congr. Expo. Noise 
Control Eng. (INTERNOISE), pp. 1329-1337, Aug. 2021. 
 
[18] W. Jin, T. Schoof and H. Schepker, "Individualized hear-through 
for acoustic transparency using PCA-based sound pressure estimation 
at the eardrum,", Proc. IEEE 47th Int. Conf. Acoust. Speech Signal 
Process. (ICASSP), pp. 341-345, May 2022. 
 
[19] F. Hilgemann, J. Fabry, and P. Jax. "Design of IIR filters for 
active noise control by constrained optimization," 2021 29th 
European Signal Processing Conference (EUSIPCO). IEEE, 2021. 
 
[20] M. R. Petraglia and D. B. Haddad “Mean-square error and stability 
analysis of a subband structure for the rapid identification of sparse 
impulse responses,” Digital Signal Processing, Volume 22, Issue 6, 
2012, pp. 1068-1072. 
 
[21] M. L. N. S. Karthik, S. Joel, and Nithin V. George. "FxLMS/F 
Based Tap Decomposed Adaptive Filter for Decentralized Active Noise 
Control System," IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and 
Language Processing 32 (2024): 4691-4699. 
 
[22] C. Y. Ho, K. K. Shyu, C. Y. Chang,  and S. M. Kuo. “Development 
of equation-error adaptive IIR-filter-based active noise control 
system,”. Applied Acoustics, 163, 107226 (2020). 
 
[23] S. Pradhan, X. Qiu and J. Ji. "A Variable Step Size Improved 
Multiband-Structured Subband Adaptive Feedback Cancellation 
Scheme for Hearing Aids," 2020 Asia-Pacific Signal and Information 
Processing Association Annual Summit and Conference (APSIPA 
ASC). IEEE, 2020. 
 
[24] L.C. Su, Y. D. Jou, & F.K. Chen, “An efficient least-squares design 
of IIR all-pass filter,” In TENCON 2009-2009 IEEE Region 10 
Conference (pp. 1-5). IEEE, 2009. 
 
[25] R. Gupta, R. Ranjan, J. He and W. S. Gan, "Parametric Hear 
through Equalization for Augmented Reality Audio," ICASSP 2019 - 
2019 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal 
Processing (ICASSP), Brighton, UK, 2019, pp. 1587-1591, doi: 
10.1109/ICASSP.2019.8683657. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
3124

