warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Deep learning based spatial aliasing reduction in beamforming for audio capture
Mateusz Guzik1, Giulio Cengarle2, Daniel Arteaga2
1Institute of Electronics, AGH University of Krakow, Poland
2Dolby Laboratories, Barcelona, Spain
mateusz.guzik@agh.edu.pl, giulio.cengarle@dolby.com, daniel.arteaga@dolby.com
Abstract
Spatial aliasing affects spaced microphone arrays, causing di-
rectional ambiguity above certain frequencies, degrading spatial
and spectral accuracy of beamformers. Given the limitations of
conventional signal processing and the scarcity of deep learning
approaches to spatial aliasing mitigation, we propose a novel ap-
proach using a U-Net architecture to predict a signal-dependent
de-aliasing filter, which reduces aliasing in conventional beam-
forming for spatial capture. Two types of multichannel filters
are considered, one which treats the channels independently
and a second one that models cross-channel dependencies. The
proposed approach is evaluated in two common spatial capture
scenarios: stereo and first-order Ambisonics. The results indicate
a very significant improvement, both objective and perceptual,
with respect to conventional beamforming. This work shows the
potential of deep learning to reduce aliasing in beamforming,
leading to improvements in multi-microphone setups.
Index Terms: spatial audio, spatial aliasing, neural beamform-
ing, audio capture, sound field decomposition
1. Introduction
Beamforming enables the extraction of signals from desired
directions using an array of microphones [1]. While often used
as a preprocessing step, such as denoising and separation for
automatic speech recognition, beamforming plays a central role
in spatial audio, where it enables audio encoding, e.g. obtaining
directional stereo signals from a spaced pair of omnidirectional
microphones [2] or converting a multi-microphone recording
into Ambisonics [3].
Similarly to how the discrete sampling interval in time do-
main determines the frequency limit above which time domain
aliasing occurs, spatial sampling is also subject to an analogous
limitation, known as spatial aliasing [1, 4, 5]. Spatial aliasing
affects spaced microphone arrays, where processing based on
phase differences suffers from directional ambiguity above the
spatial aliasing frequency, drastically degrading spatial and spec-
tral accuracy of beamformers.
Considering conventional signal processing, efforts to miti-
gate spatial aliasing in beamforming have focused on wide-band
and multi-stage solutions [6, 7, 8], rotating arrays [9] and model-
ing of spatial aliasing for spherical arrays [10, 11, 12]. Despite
significant interest in deep learning approaches to signal process-
ing, the topic of spatial aliasing mitigation has so far attracted
little attention in the deep learning audio community, often being
approached indirectly. To the best knowledge of the authors,
This work was done during Mateusz Guzik’s internship at Dolby Labo-
ratories.
currently there is no literature that explicitly targets the reduc-
tion of spatial aliasing with deep learning, specifically in the
context of spatial audio. Examples of indirect approaches to the
reduction of spatial aliasing include neural beamforming [13],
multi-channel source separation [14, 15, 16], neural Ambisonic
encoding [17], and Ambisonic upmixing [18]; in most of these
cases the training objectives indirectly aim at the restoration of
the target signal above the spatial aliasing frequency. In such
systems, the de-aliasing capabilities are not directly evaluated,
as their responses are a composite of multiple simultaneous en-
hancement objectives. In addition, neural beamforming and
source separation systems are in general not directly applicable
to sound field decomposition.
In this work, we consider the reduction of spatial aliasing
in beamforming, using a deep learning approach. In particular,
we propose a U-Net based filter, that reduces the effects of
spatial aliasing in the signals obtained as the result of sound field
encoding and decoding. Our approach allows to directly evaluate
the de-aliasing capabilities of the system and has the potential
to be easily integrated into existing spatial audio processing
applications, e.g. obtaining first-order Ambisonics (FOA) signals
from a tetrahedral microphone array, or obtaining directional
stereo signals from compact omnidirectional arrays.
This paper is structured as follows: in Section 2, the effects
of spatial aliasing on audio capture are discussed; Section 3
introduces the proposed filtering model; in Section 4, the filter
estimation procedure is described; Section 5 contains the details
of the experimental evaluation, results and discussion; Section 6
presents final remarks and conclusions.
2. Aliasing in spatial audio capture
Spatial processing of audio signals captured with spaced mi-
crophones is in general based on phase differences between
the sensors, leveraging the property that in a certain frequency
range they map univocally to the Direction of Arrival (DoA)
of an acoustic wavefront [1]. The upper frequency limit of the
aforementioned range depends on the spacing between the micro-
phones, such that ¯f = c / (2d) , where ¯f is the spatial aliasing
frequency, c is the speed of sound and d is the spacing between
a pair of microphones. Above ¯f, the phase differences do not
unambiguously map to the DoA, because sound originating from
different directions can cause identical shift through phase wrap-
ping. For a comprehensive discussion on spatial aliasing, the
reader is kindly referred to [1, 4, 5].
Figure 1 presents the effects of aliasing on spatial capture
using conventional beamforming, where two omnidirectional
microphones are used to form a cardioidal response at a fre-
quency above ¯f. For each curve, the distance from the center of
the microphone array represents the magnitude response for the
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2515
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-746

Figure 1: Polar representation of spatially aliased conventional
beamforming. The curves are in arbitrary logarithmic scale.
corresponding direction. In this example, the spatial response
is deformed due to spatial aliasing. As a result, the signal of
source s1 is improperly attenuated, while the signal of source s2
is improperly amplified, with respect to the alias-free cardioid
directivity. Since these alterations caused by spatial aliasing are
frequency-dependent, source signals will be subject to direction-
dependent filtering, while in the alias-free case they would be
simply scaled by frequency-independent directional factors. This
implies that in case of spatial capture, where the goal is to obtain
a specified frequency-independent spatial response, a frequency-
and direction-dependent combination of both attenuation and
amplification is needed to reduce spatial aliasing with a filtering
approach. On the other hand, for source separation, the beam-
former is steered towards the direction of the target source and
the goal is to obtain the greatest possible spatial selectivity, rather
than a smooth amplitude response across all directions.
3. Proposed de-aliasing filtering
In this work, we address the de-aliasing of beamformed signals,
which we will refer to as virtual microphones, in the Short-Time
Fourier Transform (STFT) complex domain.
Specifically, we formulate the de-aliasing process for a given
time-frequency tile of V virtual microphone signals arranged as
a column vector, vft ∈CV ×1, with t being a frame index and f
being a time index. The de-aliased signals dft ∈CD×1 can be
obtained from the aliased signals though the following equation:
dft = D Fft vft,
(1)
where Fft ∈CV ×V is the predicted de-aliasing filter matrix,
which is the main concern of our approach, and D ∈RD×V
is a pre-defined decoder matrix, discussed below. In this paper,
we consider only frequency-independent decoding, although
equation (1) could be easily generalized by making the decoding
matrix frequency-dependent.
The pre-defined matrix D in equation (1) decodes the virtual
microphone signals into a specific reproduction setup. Examples
include the mid-side decoding [19] and the Ambisonic decoding
[3]. When the virtual microphone signals correspond directly to
the desired decoded signals, e.g. for two left- and right-facing
cardioid beamformers to be rendered in stereo, no decoding is
necessary. In this case, D reduces to an identity matrix IV ×V
and dft corresponds directly to the de-aliased virtual micro-
phone signals. Otherwise, dft corresponds to the de-aliased
and decoded signals. This approach is inspired by [20] and ad-
dresses the fact that certain decoding strategies may result in a
loss of spatial information compared to the virtual microphone
signals. For instance, decoding Ambisonics to stereo typically
discards the vertical component. In such cases, it proves advan-
tageous to emphasize de-aliasing of the sound field components
that dominate the decoded signals, while reducing emphasis on
less significant components. However, our approach is generic
enough so that it can achieve both alias-free decoding and alias-
free virtual microphones, depending on the adopted matrix D.
Note that the de-aliasing filter acts on the virtual micro-
phones, rather than directly on the decoded signals. By using a
multichannel matrix formulation where the virtual microphones
can interact, the system is given the added capacity of leveraging
a plurality of virtual microphones to de-alias each individual vir-
tual microphone, effectively performing an implicit intermediate
beamforming step. However, if intermediate beamforming is to
be prevented, the filter can be reduced to a diagonal matrix. In
the remaining parts, we refer to the former filter setting as full
and to the latter as diag. The general formulation of equation
(1) provides a flexible way to encapsulate a variety of possible
scenarios in one model; as an example, if the goal is to pro-
duce alias-free non-decoded Ambisonics, the training can be
augmented with different decoders and decoding positions, po-
tentially increasing the system robustness and indirectly enabling
de-aliasing on the full sphere.
4. U-Net-based filter prediction
We propose to predict the de-aliasing filter matrix Fft based
on the virtual microphone signals vft, leveraging supervised
training of a deep neural network, similarly to [17]. Since the
virtual microphone signals are characterized by different spa-
tial responses or looking directions, as in the case of different
Ambisonic components, spatial aliasing will affect each virtual
microphone in a different way. This useful diversity and redun-
dancy makes virtual microphone signals a suitable regressor for
the proposed filter-predicting model.
4.1. Alias-free supervisory signals
Assuming S anechoic source signals sft and an alias-free en-
coder matrix E ∈RD×S, we construct the target alias-free
decoded beamformer signals tft ∈CD×1 using the equation:
tft = E sft.
(2)
For supervised learning, tft is the target for dft in the sound
field generated by the sources sft.
In this work, we focus on a frequency-independent alias-free
encoder matrix E corresponding to a first-order microphone:
[E]ds = α + (1 −α) iT
d js,
(3)
where α is a shape coefficient and id, js are directional unit
vectors in Cartesian coordinates. The directional vector id points
towards the d-th decoding direction, realized by the d-th row of
the decoder matrix D, while js points towards the s-th sound
source. α is a coefficient between 0 and 1 that defines the
shape of the spatial response, such that 0 results in a figure-
of-eight pattern, 0.5 produces a cardioid and 1 corresponds to
an omnidirectional characteristic. The application of the alias-
free encoder matrix E to the source signal vector sft can be
illustrated using Figure 1, where the intersection of the dashed
source DoA lines with the target spatial directivity determines the
values for the weighted summation. Note that E does not model
the direction-dependent phase shifts potentially introduced by
2516

a beamformer. Therefore, the complex-valued filter Fft will
also be tasked with relative phase restoration, approximating a
spatially uniform phase response of the de-aliased signals.
4.2. Model, data and training procedure
Following state-of-the-art neural processing of audio [21], the U-
Net [22], an encoder-decoder architecture based on 2D convolu-
tional filters, is employed as the filter-predicting model. The only
difference between the adopted model and the original U-Net
is the final activation function, which in our case is an identity.
This choice was dictated by the required complex-valued filter
properties, as described in Section 3.
Similarly to [17], real and imaginary parts of the virtual
microphone signals are used as an input to the model, represented
by real-valued features unfolded across the channel dimension.
Based on this representation, the model predicts a set of time-
frequency masks Mcft ∈R, where c is the channel index, which
are then reshaped to create the filter matrix Fft. As discussed in
Section 3, the filter Fft can be either diagonal, with off-diagonal
terms zeroed out, or it can be a full matrix filter that includes the
cross-terms. Depending on the filter configuration, the number
of output channels C is either equal to 2V or 2V 2, respectively,
where the factor 2 accounts for the aforementioned real-valued
representation of the complex-valued masks.
The PHASEN [23] loss between the de-aliased dft and the
alias-free tft decoded signals is optimized by minimizing its
mean value across the decoding directions. The model is trained
for 100 epochs using the Adam optimizer with β1 = 0.9, β2 =
0.999, a batch size of 24 and a learning rate of 0.001, which is
halved if the batch loss does not decrease for two epochs.
The training is based on simulated microphone array signals
obtained by applying delays to source signals, based on anechoic
far field propagation with respect to the center of the array. We
simulate a 4-channel omnidirectional microphone array, with the
sensors arranged on a cross-like plan, where one pair is aligned
with the x-axis and the second pair is aligned with the y-axis.
In the experimental setups with a fixed aliasing frequency, the
microphone spacing d for each pair is equal to 3 cm, while in
the case of varying aliasing d is chosen randomly between 1
and 10 cm, independently for each pair. Microphone mixture
signals are obtained by choosing between one and four sources,
simulating the capsule signals with the sources randomly placed
around the array and summing their contributions for each sensor.
The signals are then transformed by an STFT with 2048-point
Hann window and 1024 overlapping samples.
As source signals we use 5 s excerpts of speech, music, noise
and environmental signals, sampled at 44.1 kHz. The speech
samples are randomly drawn from [24] and additional 300 hours
of speech recordings. The music signals are randomly drawn
from a set of 4000 songs, while the noise and environmental
recordings are randomly drawn from [25, 26].
5. Experimental evaluation
We investigate two experimental setups: i) two opposite-facing
cardioids and ii) 2D First-Order Ambisonics, aka. planar, hori-
zontal or circular FOA [3]. Additionally, both experiments are
also subject to two variants, one with fixed and one with varying
microphone spacing, which we refer to as fix and var.
Experiment i) considers the case of two opposite-facing
cardioid beams, a common setup for obtaining stereo signals
from a pair of closely spaced omnidirectional microphones [2].
Given raw mixture recordings, the virtual microphone signals are
obtained by calculating pressure gradient for the x-axis pair of
the 4-channel microphone array described in Section 4.2, which
results in quasi-frequency-independent spatial characteristics. In
this experimental setup, we use an identity decoder, thus the
spatial responses of the virtual microphone signals are explicitly
optimized, as discussed in Section 3. To obtain suitable alias-free
target signals, we follow the procedure described in Section 4,
with α = 0.5 in equation (3), while V = D = 2.
Experiment ii) addresses the de-aliasing of horizontal FOA,
obtained from the aforementioned array of four microphones.
Similarly to experiment i), pressure gradient is calculated along
the x- and y-axis pairs to obtain X and Y figure-of-eight signals
respectively, while the omnidirectional component W is taken as
an average of the four microphone signals. In this experiment, D
is an in-phase decoder [3], which produces four cardioids along
the front, back, left, right directions, such that V = 3 and D = 4.
In both experiments, the raw mixtures are encoded to virtual
microphone signals using conventional beamforming, based on
calculation of the pressure gradient [2]. We have decided to use
this type of beamformer to ensure a quasi-frequency-independent
spatial response, while generalization is left as a future research
possibility. We report the results of both objective and subjective
evaluation, described in the following sections. Additionally, we
provide audio samples1.
5.1. Objective evaluation
The objective evaluation is based on the Complex Scale-Invariant
Signal-to-Noise-Ratio (C-Si-SNR) [27] between the de-aliased
dft and the target decoded alias-free tft signals, averaged across
the D decoding directions. Additionally, we heuristically calcu-
late spatial responses for the trained model by simulating one
source at a time for a grid of directions, predicting and apply-
ing the de-aliasing filter, and calculating the magnitude of the
de-aliased signal. The procedure is repeated with 100 differ-
ent source signals for each grid direction, the magnitudes are
aggregated and the results are normalized.
Table 1 reports the C-Si-SNR values in dB for experiments
i) and ii) with fixed and varying microphone spacing. Both ex-
periments show an average C-Si-SNR close to 30 dB for fix and
between 15 dB and 20 dB for var, which is consistent with the
expected increasing difficulty of restoring spatial aliasing with
varying aliasing frequency. In case of the 2D FOA experiment
ii), where cross-microphone information is already utilized in
the decoding step, the differences between diag and full seem
negligible. Regarding the cardioid pair experiment i), the full
filter shows an advantage over diag for var conditions, while for
fix the difference is less pronounced. We hypothesize that this
improvement could be explained by the re-introduction of the
cross-channel interaction, which is not present in case of i) var
diag, neither in the filter nor in the decoder.
Table 1: C-Si-SNR values in dB for the experiments with i)
cardioid pair and ii) 2D Ambisonics. The numbers in parentheses
denote improvement over the aliased conditions.
i) fix
i) var
ii) fix
ii) var
diag
30.3±2.5
(19.5)
15.4±2.5
(7.6)
29.3±2.6
(11.3)
19.7±2.2
(7.8)
full
27.3±2.6
(16.6)
20.2±2.5
(12.4)
28.9±2.6
(10.2)
19.5±2.2
(7.6)
1metlosz.github.io/dealiasing_audio_samples
2517

Figure 2: Spatial responses of the left- and right-facing cardioids
of experiment i) fix, respectively in the top and bottom row, in
four frequency bands.
Figure 3: Spatial responses of the decoded front- and left-facing
cardioids of experiment ii) fix, respectively in the top and bottom
row, in four frequency bands.
Figures 2 and 3 present polar plots of spatial responses,
in case of the aliased and de-aliased virtual microphones, for
experiments i) fix and ii) fix, respectively. The patterns are shown
in four frequency bands, the first of which is below ¯f. Right-
and rear-facing cardioids of experiment ii) are symmetrical to
their counterparts and were omitted for the sake of space. In
both experimental setups, the filters are effective in restoring the
desirable spatial responses. Even in the upper band, where the
polar patterns are not accurately restored, the filters reduce the
spurious components at the back and sides.
5.2. Subjective evaluation
To validate the perceptual impact of the proposed approach, we
have designed two listening tests using the MUSHRA method-
ology [28] and the webMUSHRA interface [29]. The first test
studies the impact on the timbre of a sound source with a random
azimuth, decoded to mono using cardioid beamforming. Sub-
jects are presented with the reference alias-free signal, the aliased
cardioid, an anchor low-passed 3.5 kHz, and the de-aliased ver-
sions trained with the diag or full approaches, and are instructed
to evaluate timbral similarity between each sample and the ref-
erence. In the second test we study the ability to recover the
stereo localization by applying the networks to a pair of left- and
right-facing cardioids. Here, a single sound source is positioned
at a random azimuth between ±90◦, encoded into the aliased
and alias-free cardioids, and processed by the same networks,
and subjects are instructed to evaluate the localization accuracy
compared to the reference. The anchor is a version where the
(a) Timbre test
(b) Localization test
Figure 4: Box plots for MUSHRA scores across different condi-
tions and tests. Each point identifies the average rating for all
test excerpts for one given listener.
source is hard-panned to the left or right channel, whichever
is more distant from the source position. Each test comprises
nine excerpts of music, speech, or noise, evaluated by 17 expert
listeners. The average ratings for all test excerpts were calculated
per listener, with results presented in Figure 4.
A repeated measures ANOVA for the timbre test revealed a
significant effect of rating stimuli (p < 0.001). Post-hoc tests2
showed the aliased version scored 32 MUSHRA points below
reference on average (p < 0.001). The diag approach performed
similarly to the reference (0.6 points below, p = 0.4, not sig-
nificant), while the full approach scored significantly lower (9
points, p < 0.001). Notably, a per-excerpt analysis revealed
that with full the difference was primarily due to a single broad-
band music item, scoring 53 MUSHRA points below reference
(p < 0.001), while other excerpts showed no significant differ-
ences to the reference (5 points at most, p > 0.05).
An analogous analysis for the localization test reveal a sig-
nificant effect of rating stimuli (p < 0.001). Post-hoc tests
indicate the aliased version scored significantly lower than the
reference (46 MUSHRA points below, p < 0.001). Both the
diag and full approaches perform similarly to the reference, with
no significant differences (3 points at most, p > 0.05).
These results demonstrate the effectiveness of the presented
methods, in most cases rendering the timbre and localization
indistinguishable from the reference. The timbre test results
align with the C-Si-SNR improvements, while the localization
test confirms the successful restoration of polar patterns. These
patterns match the desired inter-channel level differences across
most frequency bands, with only the highest bands showing
deviations, which are perceptually less significant. This compre-
hensive evaluation underscores the ability to effectively mitigate
both the timbral and spatial spatial aliasing artifacts.
6. Conclusions
This article indicates the feasibility of restoring the timbre and
localization degradations, caused by spatial aliasing, with a post-
filtering neural network. The framework has the flexibility to
account for a decoder and a multi-channel setup, which lends
itself to different applications. The experiments indicate the
ability to generalize across microphone arrays, while further
research must include generalization across reverberation and
diffuse noise. Other interesting research possibilities include
extension to frequency-dependent polar patterns and feeding
alias-free raw microphone signals to the network.
2Multiple comparisons use the Benjamini–Hochberg procedure [30].
2518

7. Acknowledgments
The authors would like to acknowledge Dr. Xu Li, Dr. Davide
Scaini and Dr. Chunghsin Yeh from Dolby Laboratories for
fruitful discussions and the anonymous Interspeech reviewers
for their valuable comments.
This work was supported by the National Science Centre,
Poland, under grant number 2023/49/B/ST7/04100 and in part
by the Excellence Initiative – Research University Programme
for the AGH University of Krakow.
8. References
[1] J. Benesty, Microphone array signal processing.
Springer Verlag,
2008.
[2] C. Faller, “Conversion of two closely spaced omnidirectional mi-
crophone signals to an xy stereo signal,” in Audio Engineering
Society Convention 129.
Audio Engineering Society, 2010.
[3] F. Zotter and M. Frank, Ambisonics: A practical 3D audio theory
for recording, studio production, sound reinforcement, and virtual
reality.
Springer Nature, 2019.
[4] J. Dmochowski, J. Benesty, and S. Aff`es, “On spatial aliasing
in microphone arrays,” IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing,
vol. 57, no. 4, pp. 1383–1395, 2008.
[5] B. Rafaely, B. Weiss, and E. Bachmat, “Spatial aliasing in spheri-
cal microphone arrays,” IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing,
vol. 55, no. 3, pp. 1003–1010, 2007.
[6] D.-J. Zhang, W.-T. Zhang, Y.-Y. Ma, and Z.-Z. Huang, “Anti-
aliasing speech doa estimation under spatial aliasing conditions,”
IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Pro-
cessing, 2024.
[7] Z. Tang, G. Blacquiere, and G. Leus, “Aliasing-free wideband
beamforming using sparse signal representation,” IEEE Transac-
tions on Signal Processing, vol. 59, no. 7, pp. 3464–3469, 2011.
[8] V. V. Reddy, A. W. H. Khong, and B. P. Ng, “Unambiguous speech
doa estimation under spatial aliasing conditions,” IEEE/ACM
Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, vol. 22,
no. 12, pp. 2133–2145, 2014.
[9] A. Cigada, M. Lurati, F. Ripamonti, and M. Vanali, “Moving
microphone arrays to reduce spatial aliasing in the beamforming
technique: Theoretical background and numerical investigation,”
The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 124, no. 6,
pp. 3648–3658, 2008.
[10] J. Meyer and G. W. Elko, “Handling spatial aliasing in spherical
array applications,” in 2008 Hands-Free Speech Communication
and Microphone Arrays, 2008, pp. 1–4.
[11] S. Brown, V. Sethu, and D. Taubman, “Spatial Wiener filter to
reduce spatial aliasing with spherical microphone arrays,” The
Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 145, no. 4, pp.
2254–2264, 2019.
[12] D. L. Alon and B. Rafaely, “Beamforming with optimal aliasing
cancellation in spherical microphone arrays,” IEEE/ACM Transac-
tions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, vol. 24, no. 1,
pp. 196–210, 2016.
[13] R. Gu, S.-X. Zhang, Y. Zou, and D. Yu, “Towards unified all-neural
beamforming for time and frequency domain speech separation,”
IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Pro-
cessing, vol. 31, pp. 849–862, 2022.
[14] K. Tesch and T. Gerkmann, “Multi-channel speech separation using
spatially selective deep non-linear filters,” IEEE/ACM Transactions
on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, vol. 32, pp. 542–553,
2024.
[15] A. Herzog, S. R. Chetupalli, and E. A. Habets, “Ambisep: Joint
ambisonic-to-ambisonic speech separation and noise reduction,”
IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Pro-
cessing, vol. 31, pp. 3081–3094, 2023.
[16] Z.-Q. Wang and D. Wang, “Combining spectral and spatial features
for deep learning based blind speaker separation,” IEEE/ACM
Transactions on audio, speech, and language processing, vol. 27,
no. 2, pp. 457–468, 2018.
[17] M. Heikkinen, A. Politis, and T. Virtanen, “Neural ambisonics
encoding for compact irregular microphone arrays,” in ICASSP
2024-2024 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech
and Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2024, pp. 701–705.
[18] J. Xia and W. Zhang, “Upmix b-format ambisonic room impulse
responses using a generative model,” Applied Sciences, vol. 13,
no. 21, p. 11810, 2023.
[19] J. D. Johnston and A. J. Ferreira, “Sum-difference stereo transform
coding,” in Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, IEEE Inter-
national Conference on, vol. 2.
IEEE Computer Society, 1992,
pp. 569–572.
[20] A. Sagasti, D. Scaini, and D. Arteaga, “Universal spatial audio
transcoder,” in AES 156th Convention, Madrid, 2024. [Online].
Available: https://aes2.org/publications/elibrary-page/?id=22517
[21] S. Gul and M. S. Khan, “A survey of audio enhancement algo-
rithms for music, speech, bioacoustics, biomedical, industrial and
environmental sounds by image u-net,” IEEE Access, 2023.
[22] O. Ronneberger, P. Fischer, and T. Brox, “U-net: Convolutional
networks for biomedical image segmentation,” in Medical im-
age computing and computer-assisted intervention–MICCAI 2015:
18th international conference, Munich, Germany, October 5-9,
2015, proceedings, part III 18.
Springer, 2015, pp. 234–241.
[23] D. Yin, C. Luo, Z. Xiong, and W. Zeng, “Phasen: A phase-and-
harmonics-aware speech enhancement network,” in Proceedings
of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, vol. 34, no. 05,
2020, pp. 9458–9465.
[24] J. Trmal, “Open speech and language resources,” 2024, https:
//www.openslr.org/index.html [Accessed: 12-11-2024].
[25] H. Chen, W. Xie, A. Vedaldi, and A. Zisserman, “Vggsound: A
large-scale audio-visual dataset,” in ICASSP 2020 - 2020 IEEE
International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Process-
ing (ICASSP), 2020, pp. 721–725.
[26] E. Fonseca, X. Favory, J. Pons, F. Font, and X. Serra, “Fsd50k: An
open dataset of human-labeled sound events,” IEEE/ACM Trans-
actions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, vol. 30, pp.
829–852, 2022.
[27] Z. Ni, Y. Xu, M. Yu, B. Wu, S. Zhang, D. Yu, and M. I. Mandel,
“Wpd++: An improved neural beamformer for simultaneous speech
separation and dereverberation,” in 2021 IEEE Spoken Language
Technology Workshop (SLT).
IEEE, 2021, pp. 817–824.
[28] “Method for the subjective assessment of intermediate quality level
of audio systems,” International Telecommunication Union Radio-
communication Assembly, Recommendation BS.1534-3, 2014.
[29] M. Sch¨offler, S. Bartoschek, F.-R. St¨oter, M. R¨oß, S. Westphal,
B. Edler, and J. Herre, “webMUSHRA — A comprehensive
framework for web-based listening tests,” Journal of Open
Research Software, vol. 6 (1), p. 8, 2018, herre books journals.
[Online]. Available: https://openresearchsoftware.metajnl.com/
articles/10.5334/jors.187/
[30] Y. Benjamini and Y. Hochberg, “Controlling the false discovery
rate: a practical and powerful approach to multiple testing,” Jour-
nal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series B (Methodological),
vol. 57, no. 1, pp. 289–300, 1995.
2519

