warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Relationship between objective and subjective perceptual measures of speech
in individuals with head and neck cancer
Bence Mark Halpern1, Thomas Tienkamp2,3, Teja Rebernik4,5, Rob J.J.H. van Son6, Martijn
Wieling2, Defne Abur2, Tomoki Toda1
1Nagoya University, Japan, 2CLCG, University of Groningen, the Netherlands, 3University Medical
Center Groningen, the Netherlands, 4LPP, CNRS/Sorbonne Nouvelle, France, 5BCLS, Vrije
Universiteit Brussel, Belgium, 6Department of HNO, Netherlands Cancer Institute, the Netherlands
halpern.bence.e8@f.mail.nagoya-u.ac.jp, tomoki@icts.nagoya-u.ac.jp
Abstract
Meaningful speech assessment is vital in clinical phonetics
and therapy monitoring. This study examined the link between
perceptual speech assessments and objective acoustic measures
in a large head and neck cancer (HNC) dataset. Trained listen-
ers provided ratings of intelligibility, articulation, voice qual-
ity, phonation, speech rate, nasality, and background noise on
speech. Strong correlations were found between subjective in-
telligibility, articulation, and voice quality, likely due to a shared
underlying cause of speech symptoms in our speaker popu-
lation.
Objective measures of intelligibility and speech rate
aligned with their subjective counterpart. Our results suggest
that a single intelligibility measure may be sufficient for the
clinical monitoring of speakers treated for HNC using concomi-
tant chemoradiation.
Index Terms: pathological speech, perceptual measure, intelli-
gibility, accent
1. Introduction
Meaningful assessment of speech through acoustic measures is
important both in medical decision making and in clinical pho-
netics. In the decision making, the measures obtained through
speech assessment directly influences speech therapy monitor-
ing and planning. In clinical phonetics, these measures are cru-
cial for reproducible research.
Assessing speech, whether in clinical or research settings,
typically involves two types of measures: subjective (percep-
tual) evaluation and objective (computational) evaluation. On
the one hand, subjective evaluations rely on trained listeners rat-
ing various aspects of speech, for example, intelligibility (here:
the degree to which speech is understood) or phonation (here:
accurate voicing distinction). However, these evaluations can be
time-consuming, require trained raters, and may be influenced
by biases such as listener familiarity [1] and professional expe-
rience [2]. On the other hand, objective evaluations use compu-
tational methods and algorithms to analyse speech signals and
derive quantitative measures. These methods offer the poten-
tial for automated, consistent, and rapid assessment. However,
a persistent challenge in objective evaluation, besides the lack
of interpretability of most methods, is ensuring that the chosen
metrics mimic human perception and are clinically relevant.
A common practice in developing objective speech mea-
sures is to focus on a single perceptual dimension, such as in-
telligibility. The objective speech measure is then validated by
showing a strong correlation between this measure and subjec-
tive perceptual ratings [3, 4]. The goal is often to develop mea-
sures specific to either the articulatory subsystem (e.g., articu-
lation) or the laryngeal subsystem (e.g., phonation, voice qual-
ity). The articulatory subsystem contains the structures and pro-
cesses that shape the vocal tract for speech (e.g., tongue, lips,
jaw), while the laryngeal subsystem contains the structures and
processes that generate the voice source (e.g., vocal fold vibra-
tion). However, a high correlation between an objective speech
measure and a perceptual rating does not guarantee that the
measure specifically captures the intended percept. Perceptual
dimensions corresponding to these different subsystems, for ex-
ample, articulatory clarity and voice quality, are often correlated
due to a common underlying factor, such as overall speech dis-
order severity [5]. These interdependencies between percep-
tual dimensions can lead to correlations between their respec-
tive ratings, even though voicing and articulation problems are
attributed to distinct parts of the speech production apparatus.
Furthermore, other factors not related to the produced speech
can also play a role. For example, noise [6] has also been shown
to have an impact on intelligibility ratings.
To this end, our present study investigates a range of per-
ceptual measures across the articulatory and laryngeal sub-
systems: intelligibility, articulation (clarity of pronunciation),
voice quality (overall vocal characteristics), phonation, rate
(rate of speech), nasality (resonance in the nasal cavity), and
the presence of background noise (extraneous sounds). Specif-
ically, we investigated whether these perceptual measures cor-
relate with objective measures and each other on longitudinal
audio recordings from 53 Dutch individuals with head and neck
cancer (HNC). This represents 2% of the annual Dutch HNC
population [7]. We investigated the following research ques-
tions:
RQ1 What is the correlation between commonly used perceptual
measures of speech with each other?
RQ2 How well can these subjective evaluation measures be pre-
dicted by objective evaluation measures? (as measured by
Pearson’s correlation)
2. Related works
This section reviews previous studies that investigated the re-
lationships between multiple perceptual measures, as well as
those that focused on the impact of one perceptual measure to
another. However, note that most of these are studies on non-
HNC populations. Due to limited space, we are not able to
give a full account of the objective evaluation measures, and
the reader is referred to the review of [8].
2.1. Interrelationships between perceptual measures
Tu and colleagues conducted a study comparing a number
of perceptual measures (articulatory precision, nasality, vo-
cal quality, severity, and prosody) [5]. Their study included
32 speakers with dysarthria rated by 15 second-year speech-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
3733
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1127

language therapy master students. The lowest correlation was
between vocal quality and nasality (r = 0.69), the highest cor-
relation was between vocal quality, articulation precision, and
severity (all of them r = 0.91), showing strong interrelated-
ness between measures overall. In another study, the De Bodt
et al. [9] showed a strong correlation between articulatory pre-
cision and intelligibility (r = 0.82), and a moderate correlation
between voice quality and intelligibility (r = 0.46), and weak
correlation between nasality and intelligibility (r = 0.32) in
speakers with dysarthria (n = 79).
2.2. Impact of perceptual measures on intelligibility
Speech rate: In the case of typical speech, faster speech is usu-
ally more difficult to understand [10]. For pathological speech,
the relationship is a bit different. For example, for speakers with
dysarthria, an atypical (either too fast or too slow) speech rate
is often used as a diagnostic criterion [11]. For certain speak-
ers with dysarthria who speak too fast, teaching them to speak
slowly improves intelligibility [12].
Articulatory precision: Articulatory precision and intelli-
gibility have recurrently been positively associated with each
other.
Apart from De Bodt et al.
[9] results mentioned
above, Thompson and Kim [13] also reported strong correla-
tions (r = 0.9) between intelligibility and articulatory precision
in 40 speakers with and without dysarthria.
Nasality: The literature reports varying correlations be-
tween intelligibility and nasality ratings. McWilliams at al. [14]
found a high correlation between nasality and intelligibility rat-
ings (r = 0.72) of 48 cleft-palate patients rated by seven lis-
teners. In Cantonese children with cleft palate, no significant
correlation was established neither for nasal (r = −0.38), nor
for non-nasal sentences (r = −0.41)[15].
Noise: A common finding is that extraneous noise nega-
tively affects intelligibility. Depending on the type of noise,
there are some intricacies to this effect, i.e., noise with linguis-
tic component in the same language (e.g., babble noise) is more
detrimental to intelligibility compared to noise without linguis-
tic content (e.g., white noise) [16]. Studies on speakers with
dysarthria [17] or HNC [6] have both shown that babble noise
impacts pathological speech more than typical speech.
3. Dataset and Experimental Percepts
We use the NKI-SpeechRT dataset, introduced in [18]. The
dataset contains speakers with mild-to-mid severity pre and
post-treatment for HNC with concomitant chemoradiotherapy
(CCRT). The dataset includes 55 speakers (45 male, 10 female;
mean age = 57 years, range = 32-79 years), of whom 47 are na-
tive speakers of Dutch. The remaining 8 speakers are non-native
speakers. The dataset includes recordings from a speaker at a
maximum of five time points: before CCRT, ten weeks post-
CCRT, and 12 months post-CCRT. The other two stages are un-
known. The total number of combination of speakers and stages
(e.g., speaker1 pre, speaker1 post 12, from now on:
speaker-stages) are 141 (pre-CCRT 54, post-CCRT 87). There
are no typical speakers in the dataset. For the current data anal-
ysis, 5 speaker-stages (2 pre-CCRT, 3 post-CCRT), and two
speakers (both male) are excluded due to the inability to get
forced alignments. In total 136 speaker-stages, and 53 speakers
are included. Speaker-stages are used for the correlation exper-
iments. The total recorded audio is ca. 4 hours.
Participants were asked to read the Dutch text ’De vi-
jvervrouw’ by Godfried Bomans. Recordings were made with
a Sennheiser MD421 Dynamic Microphone and portable 24-
bit digital wave recorder (Edirol Roland R-1). The audio sam-
ples were cut for surrounding silences during manual annota-
tion, therefore no additional voice activity detection was ap-
plied. The speech samples were energy normalised to -10 dB,
downsampled to 16 kHz and quantized to 16-bit PCM for the
analysis.
3.1. Subjective measures
In a 70-minute online listening test, 14 Dutch recent speech
language pathology graduates without any self-reported hearing
difficulties rated the entire speech text cut into three segments of
approximately equal lengths. The audio was presented at 70 dB
using Sennheiser HD418 headphones. Each segment received
a single rating from the 14 listeners, and the mean scores are
used for the correlation experiments. All listeners rated all the
stimuli/speakers.
Several dimensions, listed below, were rated simultane-
ously. The relevant experimental details here are reproduced
based on [19, 20]. Ratings statistics and interrater correlations
(ICC2, K) are in Table 1.
Intelligibility (INT): Listeners were asked to rate the speech in-
telligibility on a 7-point scale (1 = completely unintelligible, 7
= good). The listeners were able to check the text with the abil-
ity to replay the stimuli. This allowed them to more accurately
judge the intelligibility.
Phonation (PHO): Listeners were asked to rate the degree to
which phonation deviated from what they considered normal
on a 5-point scale (1 = very deviant, 5 = normal).
Articulatory precision (AP): Listeners were asked to evalu-
ate the general precision of vowel and consonant production as
compared to normal running speech on a 5-point scale (1 = ex-
tremely imprecise, 5 = normal/precise). Precise articulation was
defined as correct manner and place of production and clear co-
ordination between sounds.
Perceived speed (SPEED): Listeners were asked to evaluate
the speech rate on a 9-point scale (1 = slow, 5 = normal, 9 =
fast).
Voice quality (VQ): Listeners rated the overall impression of
voice quality on a 5-point scale (1 = severely deviated, 5 = nor-
mal). Listeners were explicitly asked to not rate pleasantness
but rather the degree of voice deviation compared to normal
voice.
Nasality (NAS): Listeners were asked to evaluate nasality on a
5-point scale (1 = very nasal, 5 = normal).
NOISE: A separate study was done with one expert phonetician
(R.v.S.) who rated the noisiness of the recordings on a 3-point
scale. Zero meant no or barely any audible noise, one meant
audible noise, and two meant noisy, including sometimes other
voices or ringing of the telephone. We decided to keep all the
recordings even those rated very noisy for the further experi-
mentations.
4. Objective measures
In this section, we introduce the objective methods that we com-
pare to the perceptual measures. We categorised the objective
measures based on what they are intended to measure. For the
objective analysis, the texts were manually cut into 23 utter-
ances. Individual ratings for the utterances were obtained with
each method, and averaged to obtain a speaker-stage level score
for the correlation analysis.
3734

NAS (1-5)
PHO (1-5)
SPEED (1-9)
AP (1-5)
INT (1-7)
VQ (1-5)
NOISE (0-2)
Mean ± Std
4.42 ± 0.29
3.89 ± 0.58
5.14 ± 0.80
3.97 ± 0.66
5.51 ± 0.97
4.32 ± 0.42
0.44 ± 0.46
Range [Min, Max]
[2.63, 4.77]
[1.44, 4.69]
[3.36, 7.48]
[2.11, 4.86]
[2.31, 6.73]
[2.93, 4.85]
[0.00, 1.67]
IQR
[4.33, 4.58]
[3.67, 4.24]
[4.74, 5.63]
[3.66, 4.44]
[5.07, 6.19]
[4.19, 4.58]
[0, 0.67]
ICC2,K
0.58
0.91
0.90
0.91
0.92
0.78
N/A
Table 1: Summary statistics for different speech attributes. Note that the statistics are calculated on the averaged ratings, hence the
decimals in min/max. IQR = interquartile range, ICC2,k = intra-class correlation. NAS = nasality, PHO = phonation, SPEED =
speech rate, AP = articulatory precision, INT = intelligibility, VQ = voice quality, NOISE = recording noisiness.
4.1. Intelligibility estimation methods
In the intelligibility estimation methods, we aimed to compare
both reference-based and reference-free methods. The phoneme
error rate needs written transcription of the audio (written ref-
erence), the neural acoustic distance needs audio reference and
transcriptions (written and speech reference), and the XPPG-
PCA does not need any reference.
Phoneme error rate (PER): To obtain prediction for
the phonemes in the utterances, we used a Dutch phoneme
recogniser1 pre-trained on the Dutch Common Voice dataset
[21]. All of our datasets had word-level transcriptions, which
we converted to phoneme-level transcriptions using the Dutch
espeak frontend of phonemizer [22].
Neural acoustic distance (NAD): NAD was initially pro-
posed as a pronunciation evaluation distance measure [23]. As
the wav2vec-large feature used by this distance measure has
shown to be sensitive to pathological speech, too [24], we think
it can work as an intelligibility measure.
First, for each of
utterance, we obtained word boundaries using the pre-trained
dutch cv acoustic model from the Montreal Forced Aligner
(MFA) [25]. Then, speech features were extracted from utter-
ances using layer 10 of the wav2vec2-large model, as this pro-
vided the best result in [23]. The segmentation on the MFA was
applied on the wav2vec features to extract feature sequences for
individual words in an utterance. For the distance calculation,
each word (from now: target word) in an utterance was sys-
tematically compared against the same word from all the other
speakers in the dataset (from now: reference words). These
comparisons were performed using dynamic time warping to
match the naturally varying word durations. The scores from
the target words were then first averaged across all reference
words, then the word-level scores in an utterance. Open source
code available2.
XPPG-PCA (PCX): XPPG-PCA is a novel method for
evaluating speech severity, combining x-vectors and phonetic
posteriorgrams. These features are extracted from each utter-
ance, normalized, and concatenated. Principal component anal-
ysis (PCA) is then applied to this combined feature set, esti-
mated on NKI-OC-VC [26], to identify dominant variations re-
lated to speech severity. The first principal component is then
used to calculate a reference-free score for each utterance in
a new dataset, reflecting the degree of deviation from typical
speech patterns [27]. Open source code available3.
1https://huggingface.co/Clementapa/
wav2vec2-base-960h-phoneme-reco-dutch
2https://github.com/Bartelds/
neural-acoustic-distance
3https://github.com/karkirowle/xppg-pca
4.2. Speed estimation methods
Speech rate RATES: To calculate speech rate, we divided the
total number of words in the transcription by the duration of the
recording.
Articulation rate RATEA: Compared to speech rate, ar-
ticulation rate excludes pauses. To estimate the total duration of
the speech without pauses we use an energy-based voice activ-
ity detection, and consider all speech samples less than 20 dB
under the peak as speech frames. The total duration of these
speech frames is used as a proxy for the duration excluding
pauses. The articulation rate is calculated as number of words
in the transcription divided by the duration excluding pauses.
4.3. Noise estimation methods
SNRN: The NIST (National Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology) signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) estimation method [28]
uses sequential Gaussian mixture estimation to model noise. It
generates a short-time energy histogram, which is then used to
determine the energy distributions of both the signal and noise,
from which the SNR is calculated.
SNRW:
Waveform Amplitude Distribution Analysis
signal-to-noise-ratio (WADA-SNR) is a reference-free SNR es-
timation method. This method assumes that clean speech has a
Gamma distribution while the additive noise is Gaussian [29].
5. Results
Please note that we have inverted the sign for the NAD, PER
and the NOISE to make all measures the same directionality.
5.1. RQ1: Correlations between subjective measures
As there are a large number of correlations in Figure 1, we will
only comment on the perceptual measure correlations with in-
telligibility (INT), as INT showed overall the strongest correla-
tions. There was a very strong correlation of INT with VQ (r =
0.92) and AP (r = 0.95). The correlation between SPEED and
INT was moderate and positive (r = 0.38), with faster speech
being more understandable for the raters. Phonation had a weak
correlation with intelligibility (r = 0.25). Noise showed only a
weak correlation with intelligibility (r = 0.21). Nasality had a
none-to-weak correlation with intelligibility (r = 0.14).
5.2. RQ2: How well objective measures predict subjective
measures?
The objective intelligibility measures correlated well with INT.
NAD achieved the best performance (r = 0.9), followed by
PCX (r = 0.83), and finally PER (r = 0.82). SPEED showed
a strong positive correlation with RATES (r = 0.83), and a
moderate positive correlation with RATEA (r = 0.42). The
objective noise measures were moderately correlated with their
3735

Figure 1: Correlation matrix of the perceptual (subjective, in
black) and objective measures (in red/italic).
subjective counterpart, with the SNRN showing a higher corre-
lation (r = 0.46) than SNRW (r = 0.35).
6. Discussion
6.1. RQ1: Correlations between subjective measures
Regarding RQ1, our results indicated strong correlations be-
tween the measures of intelligibility (INT), articulatory preci-
sion (AP), and voice quality (VQ). This indicates that, within
this HNC speaker population, these aspects of speech, although
originating from distinct speech motor subsystems, tend to de-
teriorate concurrently, most likely due to radiation treatment’s
effect on both the articulatory [30] and laryngeal [31] subsys-
tems. This finding has several implications. First, for clinical
practice, the strong correlation suggests that a sole intelligibility
measure may be sufficient for clinical tracking in many speak-
ers with HNC, and as shown by Tu et al. [5], in many speak-
ers with dysarthria, too. Second, the strong correlations raise
the risk of the ’common cause fallacy’ during measure devel-
opment. Developing a targeted measure, e.g., for articulation,
needs validation on a population where the subjective measures
are not correlated due to this common cause fallacy.
The moderate correlation of SPEED and INT was partially
surprising as slower speech of typical speakers is generally eas-
ier to understand compared to faster speech [10]. However,
sometimes individuals with speech difficulties have trouble
reaching some articulatory targets, resulting in slower speech.
Therefore, it could be that speakers who are more severely af-
fected have to slow their speech to a greater extent compared to
speakers who are less severely affected [32].
No strong correlations were found between INT and phona-
tion (PHO), INT and nasality (NAS), and INT and NOISE. With
nasality, the poor rater agreement could be one reason why cor-
relation could not be established. The overall typical scores
on nasality with low variances may also explain why no robust
correlations were observed, i.e., likely the cohort did not have
nasality issues. The phonation result also suggests that these
voicing distinctions do not seem to influence intelligibility too
much. For noise, the moderate correlation is due to a single
listener rating the noise.
6.2. RQ2: How well objective do measures predict subjec-
tive measures?
Turning to RQ2, our results show that objective measures
showed strong correlations with their subjective counterpart,
with the exception of noise. For intelligibility, we found that the
performance depended on the reference type used. The lower
correlation of PCX and INT compared to NAD and INT can
be attributed to the fact that PCX does not need a reference;
the lower correlation between PER and INT than between NAD
and INT indicates that acoustic references are likely better than
written ones. The speed measures were different in their corre-
lation, with RATES having a higher correlation. We would have
expected RATEA to have a higher correlation than the RATES
due to the pauses influence on the perception but this was not
the case.
In general, the strong correlations show that objective mea-
sures are promising for clinical use, offering a potentially more
consistent and less subjective way to assess speech of individu-
als with HNC. This holds true even considering the inclusion of
non-native speakers and the presence of some noisy samples in
the dataset, which shows robustness of the objective methods.
However, subjective measures of nasality (NAS) and phonation
(PHO) still lack reliable correlations with objective methods.
With nasality, the poor rater agreement could be one reason why
it is challenging to develop such measures. In contrast, phona-
tion showed excellent inter-rater agreement yet still no correla-
tion was found between phonation and any objective method.
This suggests that an objective measure is attainable with fo-
cused research effort.
6.3. Limitations and future work
Limitations of our study include only assessing individuals with
HNC, and the lack of nasality and phonation measures. We
could not include the nasal severity index for nasality in the cur-
rent work as it requires sustained vowels, which was not avail-
able to us [33]. For the phonation measure, we are not aware of
any existing method specifically looking at voicing distinctions.
Developing nasality and phonation measures on running speech
should be part of future aims.
Despite a great performance of the objective methods sev-
eral key challenges remain. The most important is interpretabil-
ity, i.e., both NAD and XPPG-PCA use neural network-based
features that are not transparent enough for clinical practice.
Another limitation is that all of our models are Dutch. It would
be desirable to transition to language-independent models. Fi-
nally, all methods used read instead of spontaneous speech,
which may be not representative of everyday speech use.
7. Conclusion
Our study found strong correlation between intelligibility, voice
quality, and articulation in individuals with HNC which is con-
sistent with previous findings in speakers with dysarthria. Ob-
jective measures showed promising predictive capabilities, par-
ticularly the NAD and XPPG-PCA methods, which effectively
estimated intelligibility, voice quality, and articulatory preci-
sion. Future work should focus making current measures lan-
guage independent and interpretable.
3736

8. Acknowledgements
The data collection in the paper received ethical approval.
The Department of Head and Neck Oncology and Surgery
of the Netherlands Cancer Institute receives a research grant
from Atos Medical (H¨orby, Sweden).
This work was fur-
ther supported by the Research School of Behavioral and Cog-
nitive Neurosciences of the University of Groningen.
This
work is partly financed by the NWO under project number
019.232SG.011, and partly supported by a project, JPNP25006,
commissioned by NEDO.
9. References
[1] S. Landa et al., “Association between objective measurement of
the speech intelligibility of young people with dysarthria and lis-
tener ratings of ease of understanding,” International Journal of
Speech-Language Pathology, vol. 16, no. 4, pp. 408–416, 2014.
[2] M. S. De Bodt et al., “Test-retest study of the grbas scale: in-
fluence of experience and professional background on perceptual
rating of voice quality,” Journal of Voice, vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 74–80,
1997.
[3] P. Janbakhsi et al., “Pathological speech intelligibility assess-
ment based on the short-time objective intelligibility measure,”
in ICASSP 2019-2019 IEEE International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2019, pp.
6405–6409.
[4] C. Middag et al., “Automated intelligibility assessment of patho-
logical speech using phonological features,” EURASIP Journal on
Advances in Signal Processing, vol. 2009, pp. 1–9, 2009.
[5] M. Tu et al., “The relationship between perceptual disturbances
in dysarthric speech and automatic speech recognition perfor-
mance,” The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol.
140, no. 5, pp. EL416–EL422, 2016.
[6] T. L. Eadie et al., “Effect of noise on speech intelligibility and per-
ceived listening effort in head and neck cancer,” American Journal
of Speech-Language Pathology, vol. 30, no. 3S, pp. 1329–1342,
2021.
[7] IKNL,
“Kankerregistratie,”
https://iknl.nl/kankersoorten/
hoofd-halskanker/registratie/incidentie, 2023, accessed:
2025-
01-25.
[8] B. M. Halper et al., “Automatic evaluation of spontaneous oral
cancer speech using ratings from naive listeners,” Speech Com-
munication, vol. 149, pp. 84–97, 2023.
[9] M. S. De Bodt et al., “Intelligibility as a linear combination of di-
mensions in dysarthric speech,” Journal of Communication Dis-
orders, vol. 35, no. 3, pp. 283–292, 2002.
[10] A. Du et al., “Effect of speech rate for sentences on speech intel-
ligibility,” in 2014 IEEE International Conference on Communic-
tion Problem-solving.
IEEE, 2014, pp. 233–236.
[11] P. G. Blanchet and G. J. Snyder, “Speech rate deficits in individu-
als with parkinson’s disease: A review of the literature,” Journal
of Medical Speech-Language Pathology, vol. 17, no. 1, pp. 1–7,
2009.
[12] G. Van Nuffelen, M. De Bodt, F. Wuyts, and P. Van de Heyn-
ing, “The effect of rate control on speech rate and intelligibility
of dysarthric speech,” Folia Phoniatrica et Logopaedica, vol. 61,
no. 2, pp. 69–75, 2009.
[13] A. Thompson and Y. Kim, “Acoustic and kinematic predictors of
intelligibility and articulatory precision in parkinson’s disease,”
Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research, vol. 67,
no. 10, pp. 3595–3611, 2024.
[14] B. J. McWilliams, “Some factors in the intelligibility of cleft-
palate speech,” Journal of Speech and Hearing Disorders, vol. 19,
no. 4, pp. 524–527, 1954.
[15] J. C. Chun and T. L. Whitehill, “The relationship between
nasalance and nasality in cantonese children with cleft palate,”
Asia Pacific Journal of Speech, Language and Hearing, vol. 6,
no. 3, pp. 135–147, 2001.
[16] S. H. Lee et al., “Effects of various background noises on speech
intelligibility of normal hearing subjects,” Korean Journal of
Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, vol. 52, no. 4, pp.
307–311, 2009.
[17] M. J. McAuliffe, M. Schaefer, G. A. O’Beirne, and L. L. LaPointe,
“Effect of noise upon the perception of speech intelligibility in
dysarthria,” in Poster at the American Speech-Language-Hearing
Association (ASHA) Convention. University of Canterbury, Com-
munication Disorders, 2009.
[18] B. M. Halpern and T. Toda, “Reference-free automatic speech
severity evaluation using acoustic unit language modelling,” in
Proceedings of the 6th ACM International Conference on Mul-
timedia in Asia Workshops, 2024, pp. 1–5.
[19] R. P. Clapham, L. van der Molen, R. van Son, M. W. van den
Brekel, F. J. Hilgers et al., “Nki-ccrt corpus-speech intelligibility
before and after advanced head and neck cancer treated with con-
comitant chemoradiotherapy.” in LREC, vol. 4.
Citeseer, 2012,
pp. 3350–3355.
[20] R. Clapham, C. Middag, F. Hilgers, J.-P. Martens, M. Van
Den Brekel, and R. Van Son, “Developing automatic articula-
tion, phonation and accent assessment techniques for speakers
treated for advanced head and neck cancer,” Speech Communi-
cation, vol. 59, pp. 44–54, 2014.
[21] R. Ardila et al., “Common voice:
A massively-multilingual
speech corpus,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1912.06670, 2019.
[22] M. Bernard and H. Titeux, “Phonemizer:
Text to phones
transcription for multiple languages in python,” Journal of Open
Source Software, vol. 6, no. 68, p. 3958, 2021. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.21105/joss.03958
[23] M. Bartelds et al., “Neural representations for modeling variation
in speech,” Journal of Phonetics, vol. 92, p. 101137, 2022.
[24] J. Cai, Y. Song, J. Wu, and X. Chen, “Voice disorder classification
using wav2vec 2.0 feature extraction,” Journal of Voice, 2024.
[25] M. McAuliffe et al., “Montreal forced aligner: Trainable text-
speech alignment using kaldi,” in Interspeech 2017, 2017, pp.
498–502.
[26] B. M. Halpern et al., “Improving severity preservation of healthy-
to-pathological voice conversion with global style tokens,” in
2023 IEEE Automatic Speech Recognition and Understanding
Workshop (ASRU).
IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–7.
[27] ——, “XPPG-PCA: Reference-free automatic speech severity
evaluation with principal components,” Under Review, 2024.
[28] “The NIST Speech SNR Measurement,” http://www.nist.gov/
smartspace/nist speech snr measurement.htm, accessed:
2025-
01-25.
[29] C. Kim and R. M. Stern, “Robust signal-to-noise ratio estima-
tion based on waveform amplitude distribution analysis,” in Inter-
speech 2008, 2008, pp. 2598–2601.
[30] I. Jacobi et al., “Acoustic analysis of changes in articulation pro-
ficiency in patients with advanced head and neck cancer treated
with chemoradiotherapy,” Annals of Otology, Rhinology & Laryn-
gology, vol. 122, no. 12, pp. 754–762, 2013.
[31] S. Kraaijenga et al., “Assessment of voice, speech, and related
quality of life in advanced head and neck cancer patients 10-
years+ after chemoradiotherapy,” Oral oncology, vol. 55, pp. 24–
30, 2016.
[32] T. B. Tienkamp et al., “The effect of speaking style on the
articulatory-acoustic vowel space in individuals with tongue can-
cer before and after surgical treatment,” in Proceedings of the 13th
International Seminar on Speech Production, 2024, pp. 65–68.
[33] K. Bettens, M. De Bodt, Y. Maryn, A. Luyten, F. L. Wuyts, and
K. M. Van Lierde, “The relationship between the nasality severity
index 2.0 and perceptual judgments of hypernasality,” Journal of
Communication Disorders, vol. 62, pp. 67–81, 2016.
3737

