Can ASR generate valid measures of child reading fluency?
Wieke Harmsen1, Roeland van Hout1, Catia Cucchiarini1, Helmer Strik1
1Centre for Language Studies, Radboud University, The Netherlands
wieke.harmsen@ru.nl, roeland.vanhout@ru.nl, catia.cucchiarini@ru.nl, helmer.strik@ru.nl
Abstract
Early diagnosis of reading difficulties requires assessment
of children’s oral reading fluency. Since obtaining reliable as-
sessments through subjective rating rubrics has proven to be dif-
ficult and time consuming, the current study presents a novel
procedure incorporating Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR)
to compute 15 measures related to the aspects phrasing, smooth-
ness and pacing of oral reading fluency. We investigate the va-
lidity of these measures by comparing them to the same mea-
sures computed on human transcripts. This comparison was
performed on a dataset of 244 recordings of texts read by 131
Dutch primary school children (aged 6-13 years). We found
strong correlations for 12 out of 15 measures, which empha-
sizes the great potential of these measures for more reliable,
less time-consuming and sustainable reading assessment.
Index Terms: speech recognition, reading fluency, children,
automatic assessment, validity
1. Introduction
The ability to read written text fluently is one of the core skills
children acquire in primary school. Fluent reading is defined
as the combination of accuracy, automaticity and oral reading
prosody to facilitate the reader’s construction of meaning [1].
Several tests have been developed to measure oral reading pro-
ficiency (e.g. AVI [2] in Dutch andDIBELS [3] for English). Al-
though widely used, these tests have several limitations. They
are time-consuming, they rely on the subjective assessment of
the teacher (word is read correctly or not), and they provide
only shallow reading diagnostics by returning just one measure,
words correct per minute (wcpm), which describes the number
of words read correctly per minute. To obtain a good picture of
reading proficiency, it is essential to develop assessment instru-
ments that extend beyond measures of automatic word recog-
nition, for example by incorporating measures of oral reading
prosody [4], which is an umbrella term for the phenomena of
stress, rhythm, phrasing and intonation [5].
Rating rubrics have been developed that also include mea-
sures of oral reading prosody, such as the Comprehensive Oral
Reading Fluency Scale (CORFS) [6], National Assessment of
Educational Progress (NAEP) fluency scale [7] and Multidi-
mensional Fluency Scale (MDFS) [8, 9]. In these rubrics, oral
reading fluency is scored on three (CORFS: wcpm, intonation,
pausing), one (NAEP), and four (MDFS: expression & volume,
phrasing, smoothness, pacing) different scales, and the scores
on the different scales are summed to obtain one overall score
of reading fluency. This summation is performed because the
scores on the individual scales do not have sufficient reliabil-
ity. Despite summing, obtaining reliable scores remains diffi-
cult and laborious, since raters need to be trained and have to
rate multiple passages [10]. This means that using these rubrics
for reading fluency assessments in classrooms is not feasible.
One way of reducing the assessment load for teachers
and obtaining more objective and advanced reading diagnostics
would be by employing Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR)
technology to automatically transcribe read speech and align
this transcription with the speech signal and with the prompt.
In this way, measures related to accuracy and automaticity can
be extracted, and parameters underlying oral reading prosody
(e.g., duration, amplitude and fundamental frequency (F0)) can
be measured at text, sentence and word level through spectro-
graphic analysis. A fully automatic pipeline can thus be devel-
oped to obtain measures related to oral reading fluency from
speech, which are reliable since they can be easily reproduced.
Previous studies have shown that measures extracted from
read speech through an automatic ASR-based approach can pre-
dict subjective oral reading fluency scores of child read speech
on a 3-level [11] or 6-level [12] ordinal scale, and on a rating
rubric scale, such as NAEP [13] or MDFS [14]. These stud-
ies reported the ASR transcription quality, but did not investi-
gate the validity of ASR-based oral reading fluency measures.
Although speech recognition performance has drastically im-
proved in recent years, obtaining good transcription accuracy
for child speech is still challenging [15, 16, 17]. On the other
hand, it is possible that even moderate performance is suffi-
cient to compute valid automatic ASR-based measures from
read child speech. To gain more insights into the potential of
ASR-based reading proficiency scoring, we conducted research
aimed at validating automatic ASR-based measures by compar-
ing them to measures computed from time-aligned human tran-
scriptions. In this paper we report on a study that addressed
the following research question: To what extent can ASR gen-
erate valid measures of oral reading fluency for primary school
children?
2. Methodology
2.1. Speech datasets
We used three different datasets of Dutch child read speech:
JASMIN-NL, JASMIN-VL and SERDA-NL. An overview of
these datasets is presented in Table 1. JASMIN-NL and
JASMIN-VL were extracted from comp-q of the open source
JASMIN-CGN Corpus 1 [18]. JASMIN-NL consisted of 142
recordings by native Dutch child speakers , JASMIN-VL con-
tained 84 recordings by native Flemish child speakers. Each
speaker read two different texts at their own level, which were
saved as two separate recordings. There were nine reading lev-
1Version 1.0 (2008). Available at the Dutch Language Institute:
http://hdl.handle.net/10032/tm-a2-j7
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2395 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-306

els defined in the original corpus, so a total of 18 different
prompts (i.e., texts) were read in both JASMIN datasets. The
third dataset that was used is SERDA-NL. This corpus is a se-
lection of 18 recordings from the SERDA corpus [19]. The
speakers were Dutch children from grade 2 and 3, who read
in each recording a text at, above or below their reading level.
There were three reading levels defined in the original corpus,
so a total of three different prompts (i.e., texts) were read in the
SERDA dataset. Time-aligned orthographic transcriptions were
available in TextGrid format [20] for all three datasets [18, 21].
The final dataset consisted of 244 recordings of read texts by
primary school children and contained maximally two record-
ings of the same speaker. Each age group was well presented in
the dataset: 34% of the recordings contained speech by children
from 6-8 years old, 35% were of children from 9-10 years old,
26% were of children from 11-13 years old and 5% were from
children for whom the age is unknown.
Table 1: Overview of child read speech datasets.
Data set Recordings Speakers
N Mean dur. N Age range
(mm:ss) (years)
JASMIN-NL 142 03:35 71 6-13
JASMIN-VL 84 02:54 42 7-12
SERDA-NL 18 02:03 18 7-9
Final dataset 244 03:14 131 6-13
2.2. Selection of oral reading fluency measures
We created a set of 15 objective measures related to oral
reading fluency (see Table 2). We based this set on reader char-
acteristics related to phrasing, smoothness and pacing that are
described in MDFS. The selected measures are those that could
be validated by comparing them to manual transcriptions. We
included 9 measures related to phrasing, which areall paurate,
ia paurate, ir paurate, all paudur mean, ia paudur mean,
ir paudur mean, all paudur std, ia paudur std, and
ir paudur std. These measures describe all (all), intersenten-
tial (ir) and intrasentential (ia) pauses by computing for each
type of pauses the pause rate, mean duration and std duration.
These phrasing measures are assumed to capture children’s
sense of phrasing, which according to the MDFS, ranges from
little sense of phrase boundaries, to two and three word phases,
to mid-sentence pauses for breath, to well-phrased in clause
and sentence units. Secondly, we defined 4 measures related to
smoothness, which are the number of words read correctly per
minute (wcpm), the percentage of prompt words that are not
read and thus deleted ( perc del), the number of non-prompt
words that are inserted (e.g., false-starts, repetitions and
multiple attempts) divided by the number of prompt words
(perc ins), and the percentage of prompt words that are read
incorrectly, and thus substituted by another word ( perc sub).
In the MDFS, smoothness ranges from reading with frequent
hesitations and repetitions to smooth reading in which the
child self-corrects the reading of difficult words. Thirdly, we
defined 2 measures related to pacing, which are speech rate
sp rate as the number of words read per minute audio, and
articulation rate ( art rate) as the number of words read per
minute speech (voiced audio). In the MDFS, pacing ranges
from reading slowly, to an uneven mixture of fast and slow
reading, to reading consistently at a conversational pace.
Table 2: Overview of the selected fluency measures.
Feature Tag Unit
Phrasing
intersentential pauses
mean duration ir paudur mean s
std duration ir paudur std s
rate ir paurate #ir pauses/min
intrasentential pauses
mean duration ia paudur mean s
std duration ia paudur std s
rate ia paurate #ia pauses/min
all pauses
mean duration all paudur mean s
std duration all paudur std s
rate all paurate #all pauses/min
Smoothness
words correct per min. wcpm #cor/min
% of substituted words perc sub #sub/#prompts
% of deleted words perc del #del/#prompts
% of inserted words perc ins #ins/#prompts
Pacing
speech rate sp rate #wds/min
articulation rate art rate #wds/min speech
2.3. Computation of oral reading fluency measures
To compute these measures automatically from speech, we de-
veloped a pipeline that consists of two modules: an ASR mod-
ule followed by an alignment module. The code is openly avail-
able2. In the ASR module, the time-aligned transcriptions of the
recordings were obtained using the Dutch Large-v2 ASR model
from Whisper Timestamped [22]. This model extends the Whis-
per model [23] by using Dynamic Time Warping (DTW) [24] to
compute word-level timestamps. We generated for each record-
ing 4 different transcriptions by using different input settings of
the ASR model: whispert uses the default settings, whispert dis
has enabled Disfluency Detection (DIS), whispert vad dis has
enabled DIS and V oice Activity Detection (V AD), and whis-
pert prompt has the initial prompt property set to the prompt.
The ASR output with DIS enabled contains intervals with the
tag [*], which represent disfluencies. Through informal lis-
tening, we observed that these tags mainly mark respiratory
breaths, but also background noise, filled and silent pauses,
false starts and incorrect readings. The silent pauses occur most
frequent, and for that reason we decided to treat the disfluency
intervals as pauses. From the time-aligned ASR transcriptions,
we computed 5 fluency measures: the two pacing measures and
the three phrasing measures that are related to all pauses. For
validation purposes, the same 5 measures were also obtained
directly from the orthographic transcriptions.
Using the alignment module, the other 10 fluency mea-
sures are obtained from both the time-aligned ASR transcrip-
tions and time-aligned orthographic transcriptions. The same
procedure is followed for both transcriptions. In the alignment
module, each transcription is aligned with its prompt. This
alignment provides insights on how specific words and sen-
tences are read by the children. A difficulty in this procedure is
that children can omit reading a sentence. The proposed proce-
dure takes this into account. First the prompt and transcript are
2https://github.com/WiekeHarmsen/
readingFluencyFeatureSet
2396

aligned globally using the PairwiseAligner of the Biopython 3
package [25]. Next, the segments where one word is aligned
with multiple words are selected, and these are a second time
aligned, this time using word alignment (implemented using
the Needlemann-Wunsch algorithm from the Python package
string2string4 [26]). Now each word in the prompt is aligned
with maximally one word from the transcript, which makes it
possible to map the word timestamps of the transcripts with
each prompt-transcript word alignment. Needleman-Wunsch is
used again to align the characters of the aligned words. In this
resulting alignment, we can compare each prompt word with its
transcription and obtain the 4 measures related to smoothness.
In addition, we can classify pauses as intersentential or intrasen-
tential in the resulting alignment, which allows for the compu-
tation of the 6 phrasing measures related to intersentential and
intrasentential pauses. For the computation of all 9 phrasing
measures, we only included pauses longer than 0.2s.
2.4. Validation of ASR-based oral reading fluency measures
We first determined which of the four ASR systems provided
the most accurate speech transcriptions. To this end, we eval-
uated the transcription accuracy of the four systems by com-
puting Word Error Rate (WER), Substitution Error Rate (SER),
Insertion Error Rate (IER) and Deletion Error Rate (DER) using
the tool SCLITE from the NIST SCoring ToolKit (SCTK)5. We
normalized both ASR and orthographic transcriptions first by
converting them to lowercase, removing punctuation, writing
numbers as text 6, normalizing the spelling of names, and cor-
recting the most frequent spelling errors. In addition, we also
evaluated both the transcription and timing accuracy by com-
puting precision, recall and the F1-score in line with Bain et
al. (2023) [27] and Zusag et al. (2024) [28]: P recision =
T P/NASR and Recall = T P/NORT where NASR is the num-
ber of recognized words by the ASR, NORT is the number of
actually read words according to the orthographic transcription,
and T P is the number of True Positives. A True Positive is a
recognized word that has both an exact string match and tempo-
ral overlap with a reference word. Temporal overlap means that
the start and end timestamps of a recognized word fall within
a predefined collar of the corresponding reference word times-
tamps (see the light blue segments in Figure 1). We used a collar
value of 0.2 s, since this is in line with previous studies [27, 28].
Figure 1: Example of TP for the evaluation of timing accuracy.
Subsequently, we validated the ASR-based reading fluency
measures of the highest performing ASR system by comput-
ing Pearson’s correlation coefficient (using the Python package
SciPy [29]) between the automatic measures computed from the
ASR transcript and the human measures computed from ortho-
graphic transcriptions.
3https://biopython.org
4https://github.com/stanfordnlp/string2string
5https://github.com/usnistgov/SCTK
6https://pypi.org/project/num2words/
3. Results
3.1. Evaluating ASR transcription and timing accuracy
Table 3 shows the transcription accuracy (WER, SER, DER and
IER) and transcription and timing accuracy (F1) of the four dif-
ferent ASR systems. With respect to transcription accuracy,
we found comparable performance for the ASR systems whis-
pert, whispert dis and whispert vad dis, where results for whis-
pert vad dis are slightly better for WER and SER. For these
three systems, deletion errors are most frequent, which means
that words present in the speech signal are missing in the ASR
transcription. Inspection of these deletion errors showed that
most of them are self-corrections or repetitions (e.g.,bektijt bek-
ijkt is transcribed as bekijkt (looks at), the incorrect first attempt
bektijt is not transcribed.). In addition, the most frequent sub-
stitution error is the ASR transcribing the indefinite article een
(a) as the definite article de (the).
When evaluating the ASR systems on both transcription
and timing accuracy, we found that bothwhispert dis and whis-
pert vad dis show good performance ( F 1 ≥ 0.8), and that
whispert vad dis shows the best performance (see Table 3). In
the context of fair and inclusive speech science, we investigated
whether this finding holds for all age groups and visualized the
distribution of F1-scores ofwhispert vad dis for each age group
in the dataset (see Figure 2). We found for all age groups a
mean F1-score of 0.8 or higher, except for the seven-year-olds
(F 1mean = 0 .67). In this age group, the F1-scores also show
a high standard deviation ( std = 0 .18) in comparison to the
other age groups. In addition, we observe that F1 increases over
the years till the score stabilizes around a value of 0.9 from age
= 10. The group of six-year-olds are an outlier on this trend,
which can possibly be explained by the fact that this group only
consists of one student reading two texts.
Table 3: Evaluation of transcription and timing accuracy
(N=89,518 reference words from 244 recordings). ‘wht’ is an
abbreviation for ‘whispert’. The reported 95%-confidence in-
tervals (ci) are computed using a binominal model.
ASR WER SER DER IER F1
(% ± ci) (%) (%) (%)
wht 12.4 ±0.22 4.8 6.3 1.3 0.74
wht dis 13.0 ±0.22 4.8 6.3 1.9 0.80
wht vad dis 12.3 ±0.22 4.5 6.3 1.5 0.82
wht prompt 17.5 ±0.25 8.7 5.5 3.4 0.63
3.2. Validity of ASR-based reading fluency measures
Since whispert vad dis performs best with respect to both tran-
scription and timing accuracy, we compared the ASR-based
reading fluency measures computed using this ASR system
with the measures computed from human orthographic tran-
scriptions. Table 4 shows Pearson’s correlation for each mea-
sure. For 12 of the 15 measures, we found strong correlations
(r ≥ 0.7). These are all pacing measures, the smoothness mea-
sures wcpm and del perc, the phrasing measures related to inter-
sentential and intrasentential pauses, and two measures related
to all pauses (i.e., all paudur mean, all paudur std). We found
moderate correlations ( 0.5 ≤ r < 0.7) for the phrasing mea-
sure all paurate, and the smoothness measure sub perc. The
smoothness measure ins perc had a weak correlation (r < 0.5).
2397

Figure 2: Boxplots representing the distribution of whis-
pert vad dis F1-scores for each age group.
4. Discussion & Conclusion
In the current study, we investigated to what extent ASR can
generate valid measures of oral reading fluency for primary
school children. To answer this question we compared 15 ASR-
based measures obtained automatically from three different cor-
pora of child read speech to measures for the same recordings
computed from time-aligned human transcriptions. Although
the transcription and timing accuracy scores produced by the
ASR system were not perfect (WER = 12 .3%, F1 = 0 .82),
we found strong correlations ( r ≥ 0.7) for 12 out of 15 ASR-
based measures related to pacing, phrasing and smoothness.
The headmost interpretation of these results is that these 12
ASR-based measures provide valid indicators of oral reading
fluency. However, the specific use of such measures needs to
be considered with care depending on the context in which the
measures are employed. For instance, for use in high-stakes
tests, it is argued that valid measures require correlations of at
least 0.9 [30, 31]. This means that among the measures we stud-
ied only four managed to satisfy this criterion. For other types
of use in the educational context such as pre-screening or for-
mative assessment other criteria may hold, which implies that
possibly more measures can be usefully employed. In any case,
these results provide evidence that this is a promising research
direction, especially given the fact that this study concerns child
speech, which is challenging to transcribe [15, 16, 17].
In addition, it is important to note that there is considerable
room for improvement in the computation of the three ASR-
based measures in which we did not find strong correlations.
Two of these measures are related to smoothness, sub perc (the
percentage of prompt words containing a substitution error) and
ins perc (the number of inserted words relative to the prompt),
whose low correlations we expect to be consequences of the
relatively high substitution error rate (SER=4.5%) and deletion
error rate (DER=6.3%), respectively. We also assume that this
relatively high deletion error rate might explain the moderate
correlation we found for the measure all paurate (total num-
ber of pauses per minute), which is related to phrasing, since
inspection of ASR deletion errors showed that repetitions and
self-corrections are often not transcribed by the ASR and are
therefore recognized as pauses, which increases the number
of pauses recognized through ASR. To improve the validity of
Table 4: The measures sorted on correlation strength between
manual and automatic (whispert vad dis) measures. Pearson’s
correlation is presented between brackets.
phrasing smoothness pacing
strong
ir paurate (.89) wcpm (.99) sp rate (.98)
ir paudur mean (.89) del perc (.98 ) art rate (.93)
all paudur mean (.85)
ia paudur mean (.83)
ia paudur std (.82)
all paudur std (.82)
ir paudur std (.81)
ia paurate (.76)
moderate
all paurate (.51) sub perc (.67)
weak
ins perc (.32)
these measures, it might be beneficial to improve the interpre-
tation of the disfluency tag [*] by training a model to classify
them as either respiratory breath, false start or incorrect read-
ing. Another way of improving these results is by using another
ASR model to transcribe the speech. Especially fine-tuning the
Whisper model on child speech or on the specific texts that the
children read, might be a promising research direction, since
this has already shown good results for child speech in other
languages [32]. The presented analysis pipeline has a modular
architecture, which enhances flexibility and enables easy inte-
gration of new ASR models.
Another limitation is that the current work does not include
the computation of prosodic measures, which are related to the
MDFS scales phrasing and expression & volume. However, the
current computation procedure implements the functionality to
align the prompt, audio signal and transcript. This alignment re-
veals information on how specific words and sentences are read
and paves the way for the computation of prosodic measures
by measuring their underlying parameters duration, amplitude
and F0 at word, sentence and text level. However, just com-
puting these parameters is not sufficient to obtain informative
measures of oral reading prosody. For this purpose, reference
prosody patterns are essential, for example through prosodic
prominence annotations in the prompt [33], or through com-
parison with adult reference speakers [14].
The current results seem to indicate that it is already pos-
sible to use these automatically calculated oral reading fluency
measures to the benefit of reading education and assessment.
On a global scale, such measures could be used to identify spe-
cific reading profiles and to track the development of reading
skills in individual children and/or groups of children in classes.
These data can become a rich resource for research that provides
new insights into reading development. If incorporated in an in-
teractive reading tutor with which children can practice reading
aloud, these measures can be obtained from the read speech the
children produce during practice, under realistic circumstances,
in a sustainable way. In this way, possible reading difficulties
can be detected in time and children can receive additional sup-
port before it is too late. Diagnostic information based on these
measures can also be provided to teachers and parents, so that
teaching can be adapted and possibly personalized to address
individual problems.
2398

5. Acknowledgements
This publication is part of the ASTLA project (with project
number 406.20.TW.009), which is (partly) financed by the
Dutch Research Council (NWO). We would like to thank Max
van der Velde, Nicole Swart, Remco Feskens, Bernard Veld-
kamp, Jos Keuning, Marlies van der Velde and Bjorn de Nooi-
jer for their contribution to the collection and annotation of the
SERDA dataset.
6. References
[1] M. R. Kuhn, P. J. Schwanenflugel, and E. B. Meisinger, “Aligning
theory and assessment of reading fluency: Automaticity, prosody,
and definitions of fluency,” Reading Research Quarterly, vol. 45,
no. 2, pp. 230–251, 2010.
[2] A. van Til, F. Kamphuis, J. Keuning, M. Gijsel, and A. de Wijs,
Wetenschappelijke verantwoording LVS-toetsen AVI. Arnhem:
Cito, 2018.
[3] University of Oregon, 8th edition of Dynamic Indicators of Basic
Early Literacy Skills (DIBELS): Administration and scoring
guide 2023 edition, Eugene, OR, USA, 2023. [Online]. Available:
https://dibels.uoregon.edu
[4] E. Godde, M. Bosse, and G. Bailly, “A review of reading prosody
acquisition and development,” Reading & Writing , vol. 33, p.
399–426, 2020.
[5] A. Arvaniti, The Phonetics of Prosody. Oxford University Press,
2020.
[6] R. G. Benjamin, P. J. Schwanenflugel, E. B. Meisinger, C. Groff,
M. R. Kuhn, and L. Steiner, “A spectrographically grounded scale
for evaluating reading expressiveness,” Reading Research Quar-
terly, vol. 48, no. 2, pp. 105–133, 2013.
[7] M. Daane, J. Campbell, W. Grigg, M. Goodman, A. Oranje, and
A. Goldstein, Fourth-grade students reading aloud: NAEP 2002
special study of oral reading. Washington, DC, USA: National
Center for Education Statistics, 2005.
[8] J. Zutell and T. V . Rasinski, “Training teachers to attend to their
students’ oral reading fluency,” Theory Into Practice , vol. 30,
no. 3, pp. 211–217, 1991.
[9] T. Rasinski, The fluent reader: Oral reading strategies for build-
ing word recognition, fluency, and comprehension . Scholastic
Professional Books, 2003.
[10] G. P. Moser, R. R. Sudweeks, T. G. Morrison, and B. Wilcox,
“Reliability of ratings of children’s expressive reading,” Reading
Psychology, vol. 35, no. 1, pp. 58–79, 2014.
[11] F. D. Dimzon and R. M. Pascual, “Prosodic characterisation of
children’s Filipino read speech for oral reading fluency assess-
ment,” International Journal of Technology Enhanced Learning ,
vol. 15, no. 1, p. 74–94, 2023.
[12] J. Proenc ¸a, C. Lopes, M. Tjalve, A. Stolcke, S. Candeias, and
F. Perdig˜ao, “Automatic evaluation of reading aloud performance
in children,” Speech Communication, vol. 94, pp. 1–14, 2017.
[13] D. Bola ˜nos, R. A. Cole, W. H. Ward, G. A. Tindal, P. J. Schwa-
nenflugel, and M. R. Kuhn, “Automatic assessment of expressive
oral reading,”Speech Communication, vol. 55, no. 2, pp. 221–236,
2013.
[14] G. Bailly, E. Godde, A.-L. Piat-Marchand, and M.-L. Bosse, “Au-
tomatic assessment of oral readings of young pupils,” Speech
Communication, vol. 138, pp. 67–79, 2022.
[15] V . Bhardwaj, M. T. Ben Othman, V . Kukreja, Y . Belkhier, M. Ba-
jaj, B. S. Goud, A. U. Rehman, M. Shafiq, and H. Hamam, “Auto-
matic speech recognition (ASR) systems for children: A system-
atic literature review,”Applied Sciences, vol. 12, no. 9, 2022.
[16] S. Feng, B. M. Halpern, O. Kudina, and O. Scharenborg, “To-
wards inclusive automatic speech recognition,” Computer Speech
& Language, vol. 84, p. 101567, 2024.
[17] T. Patel and O. Scharenborg, “Improving end-to-end models for
children’s speech recognition,” Applied Sciences, vol. 14, no. 6,
2024.
[18] C. Cucchiarini, H. van Hamme, O. van Herwijnen, and F. Smits,
“JASMIN-CGN: Extension of the Spoken Dutch Corpus with
speech of elderly people, children and non-natives in the human-
machine interaction modality,” in Proceedings of the Fifth In-
ternational Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation
(LREC’06). Genoa, Italy: European Language Resources Asso-
ciation (ELRA), May 2006.
[19] M. van der Velde, B. Veldkamp, J. Keuning, R. Feskens, N. Swart,
and W. Harmsen, CIDREE Yearbook 2024. Belgrade: Institute
for Education Quality and Evaluation, 2024, ch. The framework
and development of SERDA: speech enabled reading fluency as-
sessment for Dutch.
[20] P. Boersma and D. Weenink, “Praat: doing phonetics by
computer (Version 6.2.10),” 1992-2022. [Online]. Available:
http://www.praat.org
[21] M. van der Velde, W. Harmsen, B. Veldkamp, R. Feskens, J. Ke-
uning, and N. Swart, “Speech enabled reading fluency assess-
ment: A validation study,” International Journal of Artificial In-
telligence in Educuation, 2025.
[22] J. Louradour, “whisper-timestamped,” 2023. [Online]. Available:
https://github.com/linto-ai/whisper-timestamped
[23] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak su-
pervision,” in Proceedings of the 40th International Conference
on Machine Learning, ser. ICML’23. JMLR.org, 2023.
[24] T. Giorgino, “Computing and visualizing dynamic time warping
alignments in R: The DTW package,” Journal of Statistical Soft-
ware, vol. 31, no. 7, 2009.
[25] P. Cock, T. Antao, J. Chang, B. Chapman, C. Cox, A. Dalke,
I. Friedberg, T. Hamelryck, F. Kauff, B. Wilczynski, and
de Hoon M.J.L., “Biopython: freely available python tools for
computational molecular biology and bioinformatics,” Bioinfor-
matics, vol. 25, pp. 1422–1423, 2009.
[26] M. Suzgun, S. Shieber, and D. Jurafsky, “string2string: A mod-
ern python library for string-to-string algorithms,” inProceedings
of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 3: System Demonstrations), Y . Cao, Y . Feng,
and D. Xiong, Eds. Bangkok, Thailand: Association for Com-
putational Linguistics, Aug. 2024, pp. 278–285.
[27] M. Bain, J. Huh, T. Han, and A. Zisserman, “WhisperX: Time-
accurate speech transcription of long-form audio,” in Interspeech
2023, 2023, pp. 4489–4493.
[28] M. Zusag, L. Wagner, and B. Thallinger, “CrisperWhisper: Accu-
rate timestamps on verbatim speech transcriptions,” inInterspeech
2024, 2024, pp. 1265–1269.
[29] P. Virtanen, R. Gommers, T. E. Oliphant, M. Haberland, T. Reddy,
D. Cournapeau, E. Burovski, P. Peterson, W. Weckesser, J. Bright,
S. J. van der Walt, M. Brett, J. Wilson, K. J. Millman, N. Mayorov,
A. R. J. Nelson, E. Jones, R. Kern, E. Larson, C. J. Carey, ˙I. Po-
lat, Y . Feng, E. W. Moore, J. VanderPlas, D. Laxalde, J. Perk-
told, R. Cimrman, I. Henriksen, E. A. Quintero, C. R. Harris,
A. M. Archibald, A. H. Ribeiro, F. Pedregosa, P. van Mulbregt,
and SciPy 1.0 Contributors, “SciPy 1.0: Fundamental Algorithms
for Scientific Computing in Python,”Nature Methods, vol. 17, pp.
261–272, 2020.
[30] J. Nunnally, Psychometric theory (2nd edition) . New York:
McGraw-Hill, 1978.
[31] L. Portney, Foundations of clinical research: Applications to
practice (3th edition). Philadelphia: FA Davis Company, 2015.
[32] R. Jain, A. Barcovschi, M. Y . Yiwere, P. Corcoran, and H. Cucu,
“Exploring native and non-native english child speech recognition
with whisper,” IEEE Access, vol. 12, pp. 41 601–41 610, 2024.
[33] K. Sabu and P. Rao, “Predicting children’s perceived reading pro-
ficiency with prosody modeling,” Computer Speech & Language,
vol. 84, p. 101557, 2024.
2399
