warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
DnR-nonverbal: Cinematic Audio Source Separation Dataset
Containing Non-Verbal Sounds
Takuya Hasumi1, Yusuke Fujita1
1LY Corporation, Japan
takuya.hasumi@lycorp.co.jp, yusuke.fujita@lycorp.co.jp
Abstract
We propose a new dataset for cinematic audio source separa-
tion (CASS) that handles non-verbal sounds. Existing CASS
datasets only contain reading-style sounds as a speech stem.
These datasets differ from actual movie audio, which is more
likely to include acted-out voices. Consequently, models trained
on conventional datasets tend to have issues where emotionally
heightened voices, such as laughter and screams, are more eas-
ily separated as an effect, not speech. To address this prob-
lem, we build a new dataset, DnR-nonverbal. The proposed
dataset includes non-verbal sounds like laughter and screams
in the speech stem. From the experiments, we reveal the issue
of non-verbal sound extraction by the current CASS model and
show that our dataset can effectively address the issue in the
synthetic and actual movie audio. Our dataset is available at
https://zenodo.org/records/15470640.
Index Terms: source separation, cinematic audio source sepa-
ration, dataset
1. Introduction
Cinematic audio source separation (CASS) [1] aims to decom-
pose the movie audio into sources. Typically, this task defines
speech, music, and effects as the exclusive target stems. The
CASS helps restore old movies and analyze movie content by
demixing the audio. The technique may also be applicable to
detect copyrighted music from audio in advertisement videos.
Thanks to the recent development of deep learning tech-
niques in speech separation [2–4], music source separation [5–
7], and universal source separation [8], CASS also utilizes the
deep neural network-based model. Recently, the pair of stem-
shared encoder and stem-wise decoder, such as MRX [9] and
BandIt [10], has been commonly utilized in CASS. In MRX, the
model encodes multi-resolution amplitude spectrograms and
decodes the encoded features to estimate multi-resolution am-
plitude masks. The model utilizes acoustic features with high
temporal resolution and features with fine frequency resolution.
BandIt, one of the state-of-the-art CASS models, encodes com-
plex spectrograms and decodes them to estimate complex spec-
trogram masks. The model uses an efficient temporal and fre-
quency modeling network by leveraging band-split RNN [11].
One practical issue of these CASS models is that they fail to
separate expressive speeches, typically sounds containing non-
verbal sounds, such as laughter and screaming. Though humans
utter these sounds, they are separated as the effect stem by the
CASS models, as we will show in Sec. 4.2. The root cause
of this issue is that the conventional CASS datasets contain
only reading-style speeches and exclude expressive non-verbal
sounds. In the conventional CASS datasets, speech tracks are
collected from ASR corpora. Specifically, the widely known
Conventional Datasets
Reading Style
Speech
Various Style
Music
Foreground
Effect
Non-Verbal Sound
Screaming
Laughter
Proposed Dataset
Speech
Music
Effect
Category
in CASS
...
Background
Effect
Figure 1: Comparision of conventional CASS datasets and pro-
posed DnR-nonverbal. Unlike conventional datasets such as
DnR-v2, our dataset covers non-verbal sounds often observed
in movie audio.
Divide and Remaster v2 (DnR-v2) [9] uses LibriSpeech [12].
The DnR-v3 extends DnR-v2 by collecting multiple ASR cor-
pora to support multi-lingual speeches. The domain mismatch
between the synthetic dataset and realistic cinematic audio
causes the undesired behavior of the CASS model.
To address the limitations of existing CASS datasets, we
propose a new dataset, DnR-nonverbal, specifically designed to
include non-verbal sounds as part of the speech stem. The non-
verbal clips are drawn from FSD50K and newly crawled from
FreeSound to ensure a diverse range of non-verbal sounds. We
applied rule-based filtering and large language model (LLM)-
based filtering to remove invalid clips. Through experiments
using synthetic movie audio, our findings illustrate that the cur-
rent CASS model tends to extract non-verbal sounds as an effect
stem due to the absence of non-verbal sounds in the conven-
tional datasets. Our dataset effectively addresses this issue by
incorporating non-verbal sounds to bridge the gap between syn-
thetic and actual movie audio. Furthermore, the subjective eval-
uation using actual movie audio with non-verbal sounds shows
that our dataset enables the CASS model to separate the vo-
cal content more naturally and consistently. Examples of clips
and separation results are available at https://tky823.
github.io/hasumi2025dnr.github.io/.
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
4993
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1148

2. CASS and conventional datasets
2.1. CASS formulation
The mixing process of CASS is defined as follows:
y = xs + xm + xe,
(1)
where xs, xm, and xe denote the monaural waveforms of
speech, music, and effect respectively, and y is the mixture of
stems. xe can be defined as the mixture of foreground xf and
background xb effects. The CASS task is estimating xs, xm,
and xe, from observation y. As in [9], foreground and back-
ground effects are treated in a single stem as a separation target.
2.2. Existing datasets
In the existing CASS datasets, each stem is designed by con-
catenating clips in corpora.
DnR-v2 is a widely-known CASS dataset partially used for the
CDX challenge [1]. In this dataset, music clips are sampled
from FMA [13], which contains various genres of music. The
effects are drawn from FSD50K [14], which contains various
environmental sounds such as Vehicle, Animal, and Thunder.
The source of speech is LibriSpeech [12], first used for auto-
matic speech recognition (ASR) tasks. Since LibriSpeech is
built on an audiobook corpus, most speakers read aloud the text
in a reading style.
DnR-v3 [15] is another possible CASS dataset, an extension of
DnR-v2. Unlike DnR-v2, v3 contains speeches in languages
other than English, which improves the diversity of the speech
in terms of language families. The sources of DnR-v3 are also
a speech corpus and do not include non-verbal sounds.
Speech-Music Datasets also exist related to CASS. The task
targets only speech and music stems without effect. Among
them, LSX [16], PodcastMix [17], and JRSV [18] are the repre-
sentative datasets. These datasets use LibriSpeech, VCTK [19],
or AISHELL-1 [20] as speech stem. Though various sources of
speech corpus are used, all speeches are reading-style, similar
to existing CASS datasets.
3. DnR-nonverbal
3.1. Motivation
In the actual movie audio, we can decompose xs as follows:
xs = xv + xn,
(2)
where xv and xn correspond to the waveforms of verbal and
non-verbal sounds, respectively. As described in Sec. 2.2, the
conventional dataset contains only reading-style speech as ver-
bal sounds (i.e., xv ≈xr, where xr is a reading-style speech)
and omits non-verbal sounds (i.e., xn = 0) from xs. Though
there is a discrepancy in xs from the actual scenario, sponta-
neous speech can be extracted as a speech stem from the movie
audio. However, the assumption does not allow the model to
extract non-verbal sounds as a speech stem.
For the CASS model to appropriately extract the non-verbal
sound as speech, we propose DnR-nonverbal dataset based on
the DnR-v2 dataset. As depicted in Fig. 1, our speech stem
contains non-verbal sounds, such as laughter, screaming, and
whispering voices, in addition to usual reading-style speeches,
unlike the existing datasets. In our dataset, each track is 60
seconds long. Note that the difference between our dataset and
DnR-v2 only lies in the speech stem. We use the same mixing
strategy for music and effect stems as DnR-v2.
FSD50K
Tag-based collection
LLM-based filtering
Keyword-based filtering
Tag-based collection
Tag-based filtering
Curation
FreeSound
1968 clips
471 clips
Duration-based filtering
Figure 2: Filtering procedure to extract non-verbal clips from
FSD50K dataset and FreeSound.
Our definition of including non-verbal sounds as a speech
stem is justified in representing vocal content within movie au-
dio. In movie audio, non-verbal sounds are uttered alongside
linguistic speech and recorded on the same channel. Splitting
them into different stems or ignoring them is unnatural. Rather,
treating them as a single speech stem like our motivation is more
reasonable for practical application.
3.2. Collection of non-verbal sounds
To include non-verbal sounds in the speech stem, we collect
clips from FSD50K [14]. Using the AudioSet [21] ontology, we
gather clips with six voice-related tags: Laughter, Whispering,
Crying and sobbing, Screaming, Sigh, and Shout, which are
child tags of Human voice in the ontology. Note that, in DnR
datasets, human-voice clips are removed from effect stems.
Though FSD50K is a valuable source for non-verbal
sounds, it provides less than 400 clips except for Laughter. To
increase the size of the dataset, we crawled additional clips from
FreeSound1 via their API. We collected clips that satisfy all of
the following conditions:
• The license is Creative Commons 0.
• The tags include at least one of screaming, scream, shout,
whispering, whisper, crying, cry, sobbing, sob, and sigh.
• The clip is not created by mixing another clip of FreeSound
and is not used to remix another one.
• The clip is not used for FSD50K since FSD50K was origi-
nally curated from FreeSound.
3.3. Filtering of collected clips
After collecting clips, we applied filtering to remove clips sus-
pected of containing non-human voices or being too long. Fig. 2
shows the filtering procedure.
The tags on FSD50K clips are not exclusive and might have
undesired tags as a speech stem. We removed clips contain-
ing non-Human voice descendant tags. Even if the annotated
tags are composed of only Human voice descendant tags, we
removed ones with Singing tag to avoid the inclusion of music
content. These rule-based filterings yielded 1439, 135, and 395
clips for training, validation, and evaluation.
For the clips newly crawled from FreeSound, we utilized
an LLM to enhance selection accuracy. We made a prompt2
1https://freesound.org/
2The prompt is “You have to decide whether the provided audio is
available as a target of non-verbal speech extraction. You should deter-
mine the availability by guessing the given tags and description of the
audio. The sample containing non-human sounds like applause, cars,
4994

Algorithm 1 Mix reading-style speech and non-verbal sounds
1: Definitions
2:
L: number of timesteps in track
3:
F: sampling rate
4:
R: list of reading-style speech clips
5:
N: list of non-verbal sound clips
6:
ZT P: zero-truncated Poisson distribution
7:
˜G: skew Gaussian distribution
8:
λr, λn: expected values of ZT P
9:
α, σ: skew and scale parameters of ˜G
10:
As: target loudness
11: Mr ∼ZT P(λr) # number of reading-style speeches
12: Mn ∼ZT P(λn) # number of non-verbal sounds
13: R′ ←sample(R, Mr)
14: N ′ ←sample(N, Mn)
15: C ←shuffle(R′ + N ′) # concatenate and shuffle
16: xs ←0 ∈RL
17: τ ←0 # current timestep
18: for all m = 1, . . . , Mr + Mn do
19:
c ←pop(C)
20:
if τ + len(c) > L then
21:
continue # clip is too long
22:
end if
23:
d ∼˜G(α, σ) # sample silence duration
24:
ℓ←max(⌊Fd⌋, 0) # duration to timesteps
25:
ℓ←min(ℓ, L −len(c))
26:
xs[τ : τ + ℓ] ←0
27:
τ ←τ + ℓ
28:
a ∼[As −2, As + 2] # sample loudness
29:
c ←rescale(c, a)
30:
xs[τ : τ + len(c)] ←c
31:
τ ←τ + len(c)
32: end for
33: if xs does not contain a non-verbal sound clip then
34:
Retry from L11
35: end if
to roughly filter out clips with low quality or with non-human
voice tags and input it to GPT-4o [22]. Only clips with a yes
response were retained.
Despite LLM-based filtering, some
clips still contained non-human sounds. We removed them by
keyword-based filtering and left 552 clips.
In the last step, we removed clips with more than 30 sec-
onds to avoid one track being occupied by one clip. After pro-
cessing these filters, we obtained 1909, 135, and 395 clips as
non-verbal sounds for training, validation, and evaluation, re-
spectively. Among them, 1968 clips are derived from FSD50K,
and 471 clips are from FreeSound. All FreeSound clips were
included in the training set to avoid unexpectedly including in-
valid non-verbal sounds during evaluation.
3.4. Mixing process in speech stem
We follow the DnR-v2 dataset to create stems, except for
the speech stem, for simulating movie audio.
Algorithm 1
and animals should be rejected. Singing voices should be rejected as
well because they are treated as music. The low-quality or noisy sample
should be rejected because it degrades the separation quality. Answer
yes or no for availability as a non-verbal sound from tags {tags} and
description ‘{description}’. Explanations are not allowed.”
shows the mixing of reading style and non-verbal sounds in our
dataset.
First, we sampled the numbers of reading-style speeches
(Mr) and non-verbal sounds (Mn) by zero-truncated Poisson
distribution, setting expected values at λr = 6 and λn = 5
, respectively. The combined Mr + Mn clips are shuffled to
make a list of clip candidates C.
Each clip is then popped from C and preceded by a silence
interval determined by a skew Gaussian distribution, with skew
parameter α = 5 and scale parameter σ = 2. Clips that cannot
fit into the track length are discarded to ensure all utterances are
fully contained within the mixed track.
The volume based on loudness units full-scale (LUFS) [23]
is randomly sampled by uniform distribution over [A −2, A +
2], where A denotes the category-specific hyperparameter. We
set As = −17 for reading-style speech and non-verbal sounds,
and Am = −21, Af = −21, and Ab = −29 for music and
effect stems. These values are based on [9], which indicates the
speech stem, including non-verbal sounds, is louder than other
stems.
Finally, if the track does not contain non-verbal sounds, we
drop it. Following these steps, we prepared 1000, 50, and 100
tracks for training, validation, and evaluation.
3.5. Dataset property
Fig. 3(a) shows the number of clips per tag in DnR-nonverbal.
Each category contains at least 100 clips. Among them, Laugh-
ter contains about 1000 clips.
Furthermore, since most of
Laughter clips are composed of FSD50K, the sound is expected
to be of high purity. Other than Laughter, the number of clips is
less than 600, and a certain amount of clips derives from newly
crawled FreeSound, which may contain the sounds from other
categories.
Fig. 3(b) and 3(c) show distributions of the durations of
speech clips in DnR-v2 and DnR-nonverbal, respectively. In
both datasets, most clips are shorter than 15 seconds. The non-
verbal sounds in DnR-nonverbal are shorter than reading-style
speech, lowering the average duration of speech clips.
4. Experiments
4.1. Settings
To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed dataset, we con-
ducted CASS experiments. As a CASS model, we used Ban-
dIt [10] with long short-term memory [24] backbone.
The
model is trained for 100 epochs by the sum of a frequency-
domain mean-absolute-error (MAE) loss and a time-domain
MAE loss [11] using the Adam optimizer [25] with an initial
learning rate of 0.001. At every two epochs, we decayed the
learning rate by multiplying 0.98. We compared two training
dataset conditions: DnR-v2 and DnR-v2 + DnR-nonverbal. The
batch size was set to 16 and randomly sampled 20k mini batches
at every epoch following [10], regardless of the dataset size.
Each mixture is created by dynamic mixing [26].
After the training, the objective separation performance was
measured by source-to-distortion ratio (SDR):
SDR = 20 log10
∥xtarg∥
∥xtarg −xest∥,
(3)
where xtarg and xest denote target and estimated monaural
waveforms. We used the model that marked the best perfor-
mance on the validation set for evaluation.
4995

Laughter
Screaming
    Shout    
Whispering
Crying &
sobbing
     Sigh     
0
250
500
750
1000
Number of total clips
FSD50K
FreeSound
(a) Count of clips per non-verbal sound tag in
DnR-nonverbal.
0
5
10
15
20
Clip Duration [sec.]
0
5
10
15
20
Ratio [%]
 
Average
Reading-style
(b) Distribution of clip durations in speech
stems of DnR-v2.
0
5
10
15
20
Clip Duration [sec.]
0
5
10
15
20
Ratio [%]
 
Average
Reading-style
Non-verbal
(c) Distribution of clip durations in speech
stems of DnR-nonverbal.
Figure 3: Property of DnR-nonverbal dataset.
Table 1: SDR scores of speech (xs) and effect (xe) stems in the
evaluation set of DnR-nonverbal. xr and xn are reading-style
speech and non-verbal sounds included in xs, respectively. ˆx·
denotes a stem estimated by the model trained on DnR-v2. The
conventional dataset makes the model misallocate non-verbal
sounds as the effect stem.
xest
xtarg
SDR [dB]
ˆxs
xr + xn(=: xs)
5.62
ˆxe
xe
2.54
ˆxs
xr
6.52
ˆxe
xe + xn
7.08
Table 2: SDR scores for evaluation set of DnR-nonverbal.
Training Dataset(s)
Speech
Music
Effect
All
DnR-v2
5.62
4.33
2.54
4.16
DnR-v2 +
9.30
4.79
5.23
6.44
DnR-nonverbal
4.2. Non-verbal sound extraction performance
To reveal that the model trained by the conventional dataset
finds extracting non-verbal sounds as a speech stem challeng-
ing, we evaluated the performance by changing the definition of
the non-verbal sound category. Table 1 shows the SDR scores
when the non-verbal sound is defined as speech and when it is
defined as an effect stem.
The SDR scores are improved by only changing the defini-
tion of the non-verbal sounds from speech to effect. This result
indicates that the model trained by the conventional dataset ex-
tracts the non-verbal sounds as the effect rather than the speech,
even though there are no non-verbal sounds in training datasets.
The model may treat neither reading-speech nor music content
as effects.
4.3. Overall performance on DnR-nonverbal
Table 2 shows the SDR scores in the evaluation set of DnR-
nonverbal. From the results, the model trained by DnR-v2 +
DnR-nonverbal shows significantly higher scores in speech and
effect stems. This indicates that the CASS model can recognize
the non-verbal sound as a speech stem by mixing non-verbal
sounds into the reading-style speech. In addition, the score of
the music stem is slightly improved as a side effect.
4.4. Subjective evaluation by actual movie audio
Though our evaluation set contains non-verbal sounds in the
speech stem, a discrepancy remains from the actual movie
Table 3: Result of A/B tests on speech extraction performance
using actual movies.
DnR-v2 wins
on par
DnR-v2 + DnR-nonverbal wins
4.2%
18.8%
76.9%
audio.
To investigate the separation quality of realistic
movie audio, we conducted A/B tests using 20 tracks from
Movieclips.com, each 6 seconds long and containing non-
verbal sounds. 13 raters were asked to watch a video with the
original sound and two sound-edited versions. One version uses
an extracted speech stem from the model trained on DnR-v2,
while the other is by the model trained on DnR-v2 + DnR-
nonverbal. Then, they were asked which sound was more nat-
ural and consistent as the extraction result of the voice of the
actors.
Table 3 shows the results of the A/B tests.
The model
trained by DnR-v2 + DnR-nonverbal scores significantly higher
due to its ability to extract non-verbal sounds. This observa-
tion indicates that there indeed exists a mismatch between the
conventional datasets and the actual movie audio. Our dataset
demonstrates its effectiveness in actual movie audio, suggest-
ing a heightened potential for the trained CASS model to be a
practical audio processing tool in the filmmaking and editing
industry.
During the subjective evaluation, we found a small negative
effect with the proposed dataset: the dataset could cause the
model to mistake the voice of an animal for screaming. This
problem will be alleviated by introducing a vision model that
considers the context of the movie.
5. Conclusion
In this paper, we highlighted the underlying issue of the con-
ventional CASS dataset: non-verbal sounds are excluded in
any stems, which led the trained CASS model to treat ex-
pressive voice as an effect stem.
To address this issue, we
built a new dataset containing non-verbal sounds named DnR-
nonverbal.
Our dataset contains non-verbal sounds such as
laughter, screaming, and whispering as a speech stem. From
the objective evaluation, adding our dataset to the conventional
datasets improves the performance of the CASS model in syn-
thetic movie audio. Furthermore, we showed that our dataset is
also effective in the actual movie audio containing various non-
verbal sounds. We hope our dataset will help with tasks such as
query-based audio source separation and audio captioning, as
well as CASS.
4996

6. References
[1] S. Uhlich, G. Fabbro, M. Hirano, S. Takahashi, G. Wich-
ern, J. Le Roux, D. Chakraborty, S. Mohanty, K. Li, Y. Luo,
J. Yu, R. Gu, R. Solovyev, A. Stempkovskiy, T. Habruseva,
M. Sukhovei, and Y. Mitsufuji, “The sound demixing challenge
2023-cinematic demixing track,” in Proceedings of International
Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference, 2024, pp.
44–62.
[2] D. Wang, and J. Chen, “Supervised speech separation based on
deep learning: An overview,” IEEE/ACM transactions on audio,
speech, and language processing, vol. 26, no. 10, pp. 1702–1726,
2018.
[3] Y. Luo, and N. Mesgarani, “Conv-TasNet: Surpassing ideal time–
frequency magnitude masking for speech separation,” IEEE/ACM
transactions on audio, speech, and language processing, vol. 27,
no. 8, pp. 1256–1266, 2019.
[4] Z.-Q. Wang, S. Cornell, S. Choi, Y. Lee, B.-Y. Kim, and S. Watan-
abe, “TF-GridNet: Integrating full- and sub-band modeling for
speech separation,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech,
and Language Processing, vol. 31, pp. 3221–3236, 2023.
[5] F.-R. St¨oter, A. Liutkus, N. Ito “The 2018 signal separation eval-
uation campaign,” in Latent Variable Analysis and Signal Separa-
tion, Springer International Publishing, 2018, pp. 293–305.
[6] F.-R. St¨oter, S. Uhlich, A. Liutkus, and Y. Mitsufuji, “Open-
Unmix - a reference implementation for music source separation,”
Journal of Open Source Software, vol. 4, no. 41, p. 1667, 2019.
[7] S. Rouard, F. Massa, and A. D´efossez, “Hybrid transformers for
music source separation,” in Proceedings of International Confer-
ence on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing, 2023, pp.1–5.
[8] I. Kavalerov, S. Wisdom, H. Erdogan, B. Patton, K. Wilson,
J. Le Roux, and J. R. Hershey, “Universal sound separation,” in
2019 IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Au-
dio and Acoustics, 2019, pp. 175–179.
[9] D. Petermann, G. Wichern, Z.-Q. Wang, and J. Le Roux, “The
cocktail fork problem:
Three-stem audio separation for real-
world soundtracks,” in Proceedings of International Conference
on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing, 2022, pp. 526–530.
[10] K. N. Watcharasupat, C.-W. Wu, Y. Ding, I. Orife, A. J. Hipple,
P. A. Williams, S. Kramer, A. Lerch, and W. Wolcott, “A general-
ized bandsplit neural network for cinematic audio source separa-
tion,” IEEE Open Journal of Signal Processing, vol. 5, 2023.
[11] Y. Luo and J. Yu, “Music source separation with band-split RNN,”
IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Pro-
cessing, vol. 31, pp. 1893–1901, 2023.
[12] V. Panayotov, G. Chen, D. Povey, and S. Khudanpur, “Lib-
riSpeech: an ASR corpus based on public domain audio books,”
in Proceedings of International Conference on Acoustics, Speech,
and Signal Processing, 2015, pp. 5206–5210.
[13] M. Defferrard, K. Benzi, P. Vandergheynst, and X. Bresson,
“FMA: A dataset for music analysis,” in Proceedings of the In-
ternational Society for Music Information Retrieval Conference,
pp. 316–323, 2017.
[14] E. Fonseca, X. Favory, J. Pons, F. Font, and X. Serra, “FSD50K:
an open dataset of human-labeled sound events” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2010.00475, 2020.
[15] K. N. Warcharasupat, C.-W. Wu, and I. Orife, “Remastering di-
vide and remaster: A cinematic audio source separation dataset
with multilingual support,” in Proceedings of International Sym-
posium on the Internet of Sounds, 2024, pp. 1–10.
[16] D. Petermann, G. Wichern, A. Subramanian, and J. Le Roux, “Hy-
perbolic audio source separation,” in Proceedings of International
Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing, 2023,
pp. 1–5.
[17] N. Schmidt, J. Pons, and M. Miron, “PodcastMix: A dataset for
separating music and speech in podcasts,” in Proceedings of Pro-
ceedings of Interspeech, 2022, pp. 231–235.
[18] Y. Bai, C. Li, H. Li, Y. Zhao, and X. Wang, “Jointly recogniz-
ing speech and singing voices based on multi-task audio source
separation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.11275, 2024.
[19] C. Veaux, J. Yamagishi, and K. MacDonald, “CSTR VCTK
corpus: English multi-speaker corpus for CSTR voice cloning
toolkit,” in The Centre for Speech Technology Research, vol. 6,
p. 15, 2017.
[20] H. Bu, J. Du, X. Na, B. Wu, and H. Zheng, “AISHELL-1: An
open-source Mandarin speech corpus and a speech recognition
baseline,” in Proceedings of Conference of the Oriental Chapter of
the International Coordinating Committee on Speech Databases
and Speech I/O Systems and Assessment, 2017, pp. 1–5.
[21] J. F. Gemmeke, D. P. Ellis, D. Freedman, A. Jansen, W. Lawrence,
R. C. Moore, M. Plakal, and M. Ritter, “Audio set: An ontology
and human-labeled dataset for audio events,” in Proceedings of
International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Pro-
cessing, 2017, pp. 776–780.
[22] A. Hurst, A. Lerer, A. P. Goucher, A. Perelman, A. Ramesh,
A. Clark, A. Ostrow, A. Welihinda, A. Hayes, A. Radford et al.,
“GPT-4o system card,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.21276, 2024.
[23] E. Grimm, R. Van Everdingen, and M. J. L. C. Sch¨opping,
“Toward a recommendation for a European standard of peak
and LKFS loudness levels,” in SMPTE Motion Imaging Journal,
vol. 119, no. 3, pp. 28–34, 2010.
[24] S. Hochreiter and J. Schmidhuber, “Long short-term memory,”
Neural Computation, vol. 9, no. 8, pp. 1735–1780, 1997.
[25] D. P. Kingma and J. Ba, “Adam: A method for stochastic opti-
mization.” in Proceedings of International Conference on Learn-
ing Representations, 2015.
[26] C.-B. Jeon, G. Wichern, F. G. Germain, and J. Le Roux, “Why
does music source separation benefit from cacophony?” in Inter-
national Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing,
2024, pp. 873–877.
4997

