Voices of ‘cyborg awesomeness’: Posthuman embodiment of nonbinary gender
expression in AI speech technologies
Maxwell Hope1, ´Eva Sz´ekely2
1Department of Linguistics & Cognitive Science, University of Delaware, USA
2Department of Speech, Music and Hearing, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden
maxhope@udel.edu, szekely@kth.se
Abstract
Speech-generating devices (SGDs) provide users with text-
to-speech (TTS) voices that shape identity and self-expression.
Current TTS voices enable self-expression but often lack cus-
tomizable features for authentic voice embodiment, particularly
for nonbinary SGD users seeking gender affirmation as exist-
ing TTS voices largely reproduce binary, cisgender speech pat-
terns. This study examines how nonbinary SGD users embody,
or disembody, synthetic voices and the factors influencing voice
affirmation. Through a survey, we analyze experiences of non-
binary SGD users and their impressions of generated speech
samples, investigating the role of technological possibilities in
gender affirmation and voice embodiment. Findings inform the
creation of more user-centered TTS technologies, and challenge
dominant paradigms in speech technology, gesturing toward a
posthumanist rethinking of voice as co-constructed between hu-
man and machine.
Index Terms : nonbinary, transgender, posthuman, human-
computer interaction, text-to-speech, voice embodiment
1. Introduction
For many individuals using assistive devices, these technolo-
gies become deeply integrated into their sense of self, shaping
their physical and cognitive interactions with the world. Neu-
roscientific studies suggest that users may neurologically incor-
porate their assistive devices into their body schema, altering
their perceptions of movement and autonomy [1]. This phe-
nomenon is less explored in speech-generating devices (SGDs),
which are a type of augmentative and alternative communica-
tion (AAC) that comprise of computerized text-to-speech (TTS)
voices. SGDs serve as both communication tools and interme-
diaries between the self and the world. Similarly to other assis-
tive devices, SGDs may become an embodied extension of the
user’s voice, integrating into their identity and influencing their
interactions with others.
1.1. Identity and embodiment in text-to-speech systems
Embodiment is a multifaceted process involving self-
perception, sensory experiences, and motor actions that can
include objects external to the physical body [2]. The impor-
tance of embodiment in assistive technologies is exemplified
by research on children with severe speech and physical
impairments. Despite having access to SGDs, these children
often prefer non-technological, embodied communication
methods like gestures and body movements because they feel
more natural and offer greater speed and control [3]. This
underscores a critical gap in AAC design, which has tradi-
tionally prioritized functional communication over embodied
communication. To better serve all users, particularly those
within the transgender and nonbinary community, designers
must prioritize embodiment and create technologies that truly
integrate with the self. Expanding on this, Preece et al. [4]
investigated how disabled individuals who use SGDs personal-
ize their digital voices and navigate identity formation through
these tools; for example, Preece, an SGD user, comments: “It
is more than just a voice—it’s the voice of my thoughts and my
identity. ”Furthermore, Preece et al. [4] discuss the challenges
of selecting a digital voice that accurately represents one’s
identity, noting the limitations of current speech synthesis
technologies and the need for more expressive, individualized
voice options.
1.2. Gender affirmation in voice
1.2.1. Gender dysphoria and euphoria
The existing literature on voice and the gender expansive (i.e.
transgender and nonbinary) community suggests that voice is
more than a means of communication; it is deeply tied to per-
sonal and social identity [5]. For gender expansive individu-
als, the relationship with voice is often fraught with complexi-
ties. Some gender expansive people experience voice dyspho-
ria, a disconnect between how they sound and how they per-
ceive their authentic self [6]. While much of the literature on
transgender voice care focuses on mitigating voice dysphoria, a
growing body of research highlights the importance of gender
euphoria—affirming experiences of joy, alignment, and authen-
ticity in one’s gender expression. Austin et al. [7] emphasize
that discussions of transgender well-being often center on dis-
tress rather than fulfillment, overlooking the impact of gender-
affirming experiences; their study, which uses grounded theory
and photo-elicitation interviews with gender expansive adults,
identifies gender euphoria as a process that unfolds through four
key stages: encountering a gender-affirming antecedent, devel-
oping an affirming thought, experiencing a positive emotion,
and ultimately achieving an enhanced quality of life. These
findings suggest that gender euphoria is not merely the absence
of dysphoria but a distinct and meaningful phenomenon in its
own right.
1.2.2. Gender affirmation in TTS voices
For gender expansive SGD users, therefore, the search for an
affirming synthetic voice is not only about avoiding dysphoria
but also about seeking euphoria—the feeling of recognition and
empowerment that comes from embodying a voice that aligns
with one’s gender identity. This quest in the realm of SGDs
has been constrained by major speech corpora used in synthetic
voice development comprising only binary cisgender speakers
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
689 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2229

(e.g. [8] [9] [10]). This is highlighted in recent qualitative stud-
ies with gender expansive SGD users who have said that there
are not enough nonbinary or “middle-pitch” voice options on
their SGD and often they are unable to shift the pitch of the
voice on their SGD [11]. However, recent strides have been
made to create corpora of gender expansive speech (such as
[12] [13]) and to create more inclusive and modifiable TTS sys-
tems [14]. Using the Mid-Atlantic Gender Expansive Speech
(MAGES) Corpus, [14] applied Constrained Principal Compo-
nents Analysis to extract gender-independent speaker identity
vectors, allowing for nuanced vocal adjustments in TTS models.
Community evaluations conducted with nonbinary SGD users
revealed that nonbinary SGD users would want voices modeled
after gender expansive speakers on their own SGD and that they
would want modifiable features, such as the ability to manipu-
late resonance, breathiness, and vocal tension.
However, gender affirmation in TTS voices may extend be-
yond manipulation of variables that are considered within the
realm of “natural”. Nonbinary genders already disrupt binary
norms, aligning with posthumanist commitments to fluidity,
multiplicity, and process-based identities. Technology, AI, and
cybernetic augmentation provide tools for customizing gender
expression in ways that parallel transhumanist and posthuman-
ist explorations [15]. Therefore, new possibilities in TTS tech-
nology may be able to offer further nonbinary gender embodi-
ment in SGD voices.
1.3. The current study
The process of “making” one’s voice—selecting, modifying,
and ultimately embodying a TTS voice—thus becomes a crit-
ical site of identity formation. This study explores the lived ex-
periences of nonbinary SGD users, examining if and how they
embody their synthetic voices and what factors facilitate or hin-
der this process. By situating voice embodiment within broader
discussions of assistive technology, gender identity, and voice
euphoria, this research seeks to illuminate the unique challenges
and opportunities faced by nonbinary individuals in shaping and
claiming their voice. Furthermore, it considers how advance-
ments in TTS technology can better support the complex and
diverse needs of all SGD users, ensuring that voice is not only
functional but affirming of identity in ways that can be embod-
ied, whether that embodiment is within human “naturalness” or
beyond it.
2. Methods and Materials
2.1. Participants
Twelve participants were recruited via email from a listserv of
nonbinary individuals who use SGDs. Participants were all over
18 years of age. No personally identifiable information was
collected and their responses were anonymous. They described
their gender in a variety of ways including “nonbinary”, “agen-
der”, “gendervague” and “genderqueer”.
2.2. TTS sample generation
2.2.1. Modifiable voice quality and acoustic vocal tract length
features
We used the TTS system proposed by [14], trained on the
MAGES corpus, which has controllable parameters along voice
quality dimensions emerging from the speaker embeddings in
the corpus, as well as explicit control of acoustic vocal tract
length (aVTL) (see Sec. 2.4). We created 2 samples with
breathy and tense voice qualities (emergent feature 1 adjusted
by plus 1 standard deviation, and emergent feature 2 adjusted by
1 standard deviation), and 2 samples with different vocal tract
length settings +5 and -3, which are normalized features trans-
lating to approximately 8 standard deviations longer and 5 stan-
dard deviations shorter aVTL than the mean for that speaker.
2.2.2. Gradual interpolation between two voice identities
We fine-tuned the publically available base model of XTTSv2
[16] on the 14 speakers of the MAGES corpus (1 GPU for 150k
iterations). The XTTS system has aninterpolate function which
allows for the blending of two speakers based on two audio
prompts. We modified this function to include weights, which
allowed for a gradual interpolation between two speakers. We
used this method to create 2 samples for the survey, using two
speakers from the MAGES corpus using settings where the first
sample was weighted 0.75 first speaker and 0.25 second speaker
(MoreFirst) and the second sample was the inverse (MoreSec-
ond).
2.2.3. Fluid transition of voice identities across a single sen-
tence
To create a similar gradually transitioning effect over a sin-
gle synthesized utterance, we modified the prosody-controllable
gender-ambiguous TTS model open-sourced by [17]. The
frame-level features originally used for prosody control were
replaced by a vector interpolating between the two speaker em-
beddings. We refer to this method as the Ombre setting. For
the survey, we synthesized two sentences beginning with one
speaker embedding and transitioning to the other, over the 7.5s
long sample.
2.3. Survey
A survey containing both close-ended and open-ended ques-
tions was administered through Qualtrics. The survey asked
participants about their experiences using SGDs and their bio-
logical voice, if applicable. To demonstrate several of the fea-
tures we were interested in, they were presented with the speech
samples generated as described above and asked to imagine they
were going to use this voice on their SGD and elaborate on their
impressions of the voice, what they experienced in their body
as they listened to the voice if anything, and whether or not the
voice was compatible with their gender.
2.4. Acoustic analyses
Acoustic analyses were conducted in PRAAT [18]. The third
formant (F3) at the midpoint of each vowel, minimum, maxi-
mum and average fundamental frequency (F0), and harmonics-
to-noise (HNR) ratio were extracted from each of the speech
samples presented in the survey. To calculate aVTL, we used
[19]’s method as presented in [20]:
∆F = mean
 F3
2.5

(1)
aV T L = 34000
2 × ∆F (2)
For the Ombre voice, because it shifted in speaker identity
along 7.53 seconds, we divided the sample into three parts of
2.51 seconds for the aVTL calculation and took the aVTL at the
690

beginning portion and aVTL at the end portion in order to ob-
serve how this acoustic feature was presented at the beginning
and end of the speech sample.
3. Results
3.1. Acoustic profiles of speech samples
Table 1 and Table 2 show the acoustic profiles of the first six
voices participants heard. Table 3 shows the acoustic profile of
the last voice, the Ombre voice.
Table 1: Minimum, maximum and average F0 for the first six
voices
Voice Min Pitch (Hz) Max Pitch (Hz) Avg Pitch (Hz)
Breathy 162.4 249.9 202.7
Tense 73.5 213.7 126.8
ShortVTL 173.8 233.8 193.1
LongVTL 75.8 125.3 98.5
MoreFirst 129.8 273.5 194.0
MoreSecond 98.1 160.3 122.6
Table 2: Harmonics-to-Noise ratio (HNR) and acoustic Vocal
Tract Length (aVTL) for the first six voices
Voice HNR (dB) aVTL (cm)
Breathy 19.5 14.6
Tense 11.6 15.3
ShortVTL 21.3 12.6
LongVTL 11.0 16.3
MoreFirst 16.5 14.2
MoreSecond 14.0 14.6
Table 3: Minimum, maximum and average F0, Harmonics-to-
Noice ratio (HNR) and acoustic Vocal Tract Length (aVTL) for
Ombre Voice
Voice Min Pitch (Hz) Max Pitch (Hz) Avg Pitch (Hz)
Ombre 79.3 494.2 168.5
Voice HNR (dB) aVTL start (cm) aVTL end (cm)
Ombre 14.5 14.4 16.7
3.2. Participant reflections
3.2.1. Breathy voice
After listening to the speech sample that had increased breathi-
ness, nine of the 12 participants indicated that they would want
to control breathiness on their SGD. Eleven of the participants
shared that it did not affirm their gender. Participants shared the
following reflections:
Overall reflection:
“It felt clearer, more open. Breathy isn’t the word I’d use for
that; I associate breathy with, like, less voiced sound and more
whisper, [this felt like] just as much voiced sound with more breath
alongside it. ”
Gender complication:
“I had a very strong ‘wow, that isn’t my voice’ response to the
point it was visceral. ”
“I prefer a low-pitched voice for my gender expression, but the
breathiness adds a quality I feel more connected to than the sam-
ple without it. I don’t particularly identify with being human, so
the breathiness feels right because it doesn’t feel like Perfectly
Standard Human Speech. ”
3.2.2. Tense voice
After listening to the speech sample that had increased vocal
tension, eleven of the 12 participants indicated that they would
want to control vocal tension on their SGD. Seven participants
indicated that this voice affirmed their gender. Participants
shared the following reflections:
Overall reflections:
“It sounds rougher/gravellyer a little bit like the way I concep-
tualize the, like, stereotypical ’person experiencing testosterone-
induced puberty (at any age)’ quality of voice. ”
“My instinct was that [it] feels so much more like my mouth speech
in a way that I felt in my body. ”
“I felt a sensation in my chest similar to when I use noises to
communicate. ”
Gender affirmation:
“This feels relatable in terms of my gender because it sounds a lit-
tle more ’in between’ typical cis norms (like [...] seeming relevant
to T-induced puberties that are recent/new). ”
“Hell yes [this voice affirms my gender]. This knob embodies
trans and tired, which is me. ”
3.2.3. Exaggerated vocal tract length
After listening to the speech samples with greatly exaggerated
and greatly shortened vocal tract lengths, all 12 participants in-
dicated that they would want the ability to control vocal tract
length to extreme lengths on their SGD. Regarding gender af-
firmation, five participants felt that the greatly lengthened vocal
tract affirmed their gender, while only three participants felt the
greatly shortened vocal tract affirmed their gender. Several par-
ticipants indicated that the shortened vocal tract felt too femi-
nine for their gender. Participants shared the following reflec-
tions:
Overall reflections:
“Wow that was so interesting, it felt like it’s not trying to be human
and I love that. I hadn’t expected to latch onto this so much but I
want something like this so much. ”
“The shorter one felt weirdly monotone and tense; the longer one
felt a little unnatural but pretty relaxed, and I might not’ve guessed
it was artificially lengthened. ”
“The shortened vocal tract was slightly unsettling but the length-
ened one felt very nice to listen to. It’s a similar sensation to
playing notes on an instrument that are low enough you feel them
as well as hear them. ”
Gender affirmation (LongVTL):
“I loved the longer sample. It felt low and masculine enough but
the robotic qualities made it feel less like a man’s voice and more
androgynous. The short sample was too high for me personally. ”
“I want that voice. I love it. It feels deep, open, cavernous... It’s
not overly deep in pitch but it’s deep in the ways that actually
resonate with me. I’ve actually been very disappointed with the
lack of options that sound like this. ”
“This was very compatible with my gender. It had a lower pitch
which was way more comfortable for me, but the editing of the
length made it feel more nonbinary/androgynous than a cis man’s
voice. I might use this as a voice on my SGD depending on cir-
cumstances. ”
Gender complication (ShortVTL):
“It’s completely not in line with my gender expression but I def-
initely know people who might like to have a voice like that. It
feels feminine, sharp, neither of which particularly describe my
preferred voices. ”
691

3.2.4. Voices with two speakers blended together
After listening to the speech samples with two speakers mixed
together, all twelve participants indicated that they would want
the ability to do this on their SGD. Regarding gender affir-
mation, none of the participants felt that the MoreFirst voice
resonated with them. However, nine participants felt that the
MoreSecond voice affirmed their gender. Participants shared
the following reflections:
Overall reflections:
“Remarkably well-blended, I’d love to have this knob. ”
“Euphoria at the range and possibilities. Deep desire for the abil-
ity to do this. ”
Gender affirmation (MoreSecond voice):
“Loved it. Femme on balance but with the lower notes that make
a good trans femme voice. ”
“Extremely affirming, perhaps the most affirming I have heard of
all voice options ever. Can I get it somewhere??? Perfect mix of
my queerness and how I present myself and like to be read. ”
“It was my voice. I’ve literally never found a voice that sounded
so much like my verbal speech without voice banking. And the
nasally-ness sounds how I speak and hear my voice on the inside.
I think this would be my primary voice on an SGD. ”
3.2.5. Ombre voice
After listening to the speech sample that changed gradually in
speaker identity, nine of the twelve participants indicated that
they would want this feature on their SGD. Regarding gender
affirmation, six participants felt that this voice affirmed their
gender. Some participants who did not find it affirming men-
tioned that the two endpoints were too binary-coded and sug-
gested they might want this feature with different voices at the
endpoints. Participants shared the following reflections:
Overall reflections:
“It is very cyborg awesomeness!”
“It was weird. I would like this option, especially if there was the
option to rapidly shift back and forth between registers/identities
so that no one identity is clearly heard, but it felt very sing-song
to me. Like the spoken equivalent of a vocalist singing scales. ”
Gender affirmation:
“I loved how the voice was able to change over time like how
someone going through puberty or on [Hormone Replacement
Therapy]. It also seems like it would be affirming for gender-fluid
people. ”
“I really like it. I want it so bad. My gender is very multifaceted
and having the ability to have my voice change like this as I talk
sounds like a recipe for gender euphoria. Amazing. I love it. ”
“The instability, the unpredictability, the no-I-don’t-match-what-
you-expect—that felt so good. This absolutely affirmed my gender,
and while I’d not always want something that did this for the pure
being easier on my communication partners, I would love it to be
an option. ”
Gender complication:
“*This* voice started at a Nope Not Me and ended at a different
Nope Not Me, but the concept of transitioning like this is interest-
ing to me, with different voices that are both/all at least sometimes
me-ish. ”
“It doesn’t really suit my gender with the current voices. ”
4. Discussion
Nonbinary SGD users provided insightful reflections that
pointed towards voice embodiment and gender affirmation. Ad-
ditionally, these reflections were also grounded in the acous-
tic profiles of the speech samples. Participants associated the
Breathy voice with “openness” and “clarity”, which corre-
sponds to its higher HNR, while the Tense voice was described
as “gravelly” or “rough”, reflecting its lower HNR, consistent
with existing literature on voice qualities [21]. The 3.7 cm
difference between the exaggerated long and short vocal tract
lengths likely exceeds normal human manipulation, contribut-
ing to perception that the voices “felt like it’s not trying to be
human. ”This aspect may support gender affirmation for indi-
viduals who do not associate with human gender. Similarly,
in the mixed voices, samples from the same speakers yielded
significantly different acoustics, highlighting the potential for
creating diverse voices by combining acoustic features to vary-
ing degrees. Finally, the Ombre voice, with its wide F0 range
(414.9 Hz) and notable aVTL difference (2.3 cm), demonstrated
how varying acoustics over time can foster gender affirmation
by challenging both gender norms and humanness.
The participants’ responses to the generated voices were not
only cognitive or evaluative; they frequently described visceral
sensations in their bodies and strong emotional reactions to the
voices, whether affirming or unsettling. One quote that partic-
ularly illuminates this is “I had a very strong ‘wow, that isn’t
my voice’ response to the point it was visceral. ”This highlights
that voice embodiment is not just about having a voice but about
how that voice interacts with self-perception, agency, and affec-
tive experience. The discomfort some participants expressed
when a voice felt “wrong” was as pronounced as the gender eu-
phoria experienced when a voice aligned with their identity.
These results illustrate that SGD users are not simply seek-
ing to “correct” or “normalize” their voices to fit able-bodied
standards. Instead, they desire a process of posthuman embod-
iment – one in which voice is not a fixed, biological given but
an adaptable, modifiable extension of the self. So, what would
it take for this to become everyday reality? Integrating novel
technologies into real-world SGDs remains a complex chal-
lenge. Factors such as text input constraints, system latency,
compatibility with existing architectures, user interface limita-
tions and privacy concerns pose significant hurdles. Despite
these practical barriers, it is important to stress that the stim-
uli in this study were not manually engineered or handcrafted;
they were generated through fully reproducible processes. This
means that the results are not only replicable and can be pro-
duced on-the-fly to facilitate real interaction, but also adaptable
to new speech corpora and evolving technological frameworks.
Thus, while implementation hurdles exist, the fundamental ca-
pability of current technology to support more expressive and
identity-affirming TTS voices is already within reach – it is not
a hypothetical or utopian endeavor, but a matter of design prior-
itization and deployment.
5. Conclusion
This study found that nonbinary SGD users desire voice fea-
tures that add humanness such as the ability to manipulate voice
texture (e.g. breathiness, tenseness) as well as features that go
beyond traditional human constraints. Unlike those using bi-
ological voices, SGD users are not bound by the fixed physi-
cal properties of a vocal tract, allowing for a different kind of
voice embodiment – one that is flexible, adaptable, and uncon-
strained by normative expectations of speech and gender ex-
pression. Some users preferred voices that actively subverted
human norms, reinforcing a posthumanist vision of voice as
adaptable, fluid, and co-constructed with technology.
692

6. Acknowledgments
This research is supported by the Swedish Reearch Council
project Perception of speaker stance (VR-2020-02396), and the
Riksbankens Jubileumsfond project CAPTivating (P20-0298).
The authors would also like to extend deep gratitude to our par-
ticipants from the gender expansive community who, despite
much adversity, continue to bring light and hope into our world.
7. References
[1] M. Pazzaglia and M. Molinari, “The embodiment of assistive de-
vices—from wheelchair to exoskeleton,” Physics of Life Reviews,
vol. 16, 2016.
[2] M. J. Giummarra, S. J. Gibson, N. Georgiou-Karistianis, and
J. L. Bradshaw, “Mechanisms underlying embodiment, disembod-
iment and loss of embodiment,” Neuroscience & Biobehavioral
Reviews, vol. 32, no. 1, pp. 143–160, 2008.
[3] S. B. Ibrahim, A. Vasalou, and M. Clarke, “Design opportuni-
ties for aac and children with severe speech and physical impair-
ments,” in Proc. CHI Conference on Human Factors in Comput-
ing Systems (CHI ’18) . New York, NY , USA: Association for
Computing Machinery, 2018, pp. Paper 227, 1–13.
[4] J. Preece, E. Sullivan, F. Tams-Gray, and G. Pullin, “Making my
voice and owning its future,” Medical Humanities, vol. 50, no. 4,
pp. 624–634, 2024.
[5] L. Zimman, “Transgender voices: Insights on identity, embodi-
ment, and the gender of the voice,”Language and Linguistic Com-
pass, 2018.
[6] J. Holmberg, “On voice dysphoria: Placing the transgender and
gender diverse client at the centre of gender-affirming voice train-
ing,” Ph.D. dissertation, Ume ˚a University, Faculty of Medicine,
Department of Clinical Sciences, Speech and Language Therapy,
2025.
[7] A. Austin, R. Papciak, and L. Lovins, “Gender euphoria: a
grounded theory exploration of experiencing gender affirmation,”
Psychology & Sexuality, vol. 13, no. 5, pp. 1406–1426, 2022.
[8] K. Ito and L. Johnson, “The lj speech dataset,” https://keithito.
com/LJ-Speech-Dataset, 2017.
[9] R. Zandie, M. H. Mahoor, J. Madsen, and E. S. Emamian,
“Ryanspeech: A corpus for conversational text-to-speech synthe-
sis,” ArXiv (Cornell University), 2021.
[10] H. Zen, V . Dang, R. Clark, Y . Zhang, R. J. Weiss, Y . Jia, Z. Chen,
and Y . Wu, “Libritts: A corpus derived from librispeech for text-
to-speech,” ArXiv, 2019.
[11] L. J. Martin and M. Nagalakshmi, “Bridging the social & tech-
nical divide in augmentative and alternative communication (aac)
applications for autistic adults,” arXiv, 2024, available at https:
//arxiv.org/pdf/2404.17730.
[12] D. V . Dolquist and B. Munson, “A palette of transmasculine
voices,” Retrieved from the Data Repository for the University
of Minnesota, n.d., [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.13020/
0fas-n510.
[13] M. Hope, “The mid-atlantic gender expansive speech (mages)
corpus,” [Online]. Available: https://maxwell-hope.com/
mages-corpus/, n.d.
[14] ´E. Sz ´ekely and M. Hope, “An inclusive approach to creating a
palette of synthetic voices for gender diversity,” in Proc. Inter-
speech, 2024, pp. 3070–3074.
[15] N. B. Mellamphy, “Challenging the humanist genre of gender:
Posthumanisms and feminisms,” in Different Voices: Gender and
Posthumanism. V&R Unipress, 2022, ch. Chapter, pp. 15–28.
[16] E. Casanova, K. Davis, E. G ¨olge, G. G ¨oknar, I. Gulea, L. Hart,
A. Aljafari, J. Meyer, R. Morais, S. Olayemi, and J. Weber,
“XTTS: a massively multilingual zero-shot text-to-speech model,”
in Proc. Interspeech, 2024, pp. 4978–4982.
[17] ´E. Sz ´ekely, J. Gustafson, and I. Torre, “Prosody-controllable
gender-ambiguous speech synthesis: a tool for investigating im-
plicit bias in speech perception,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2023, pp.
1234–1238.
[18] P. Boersma and D. Weenink, “Praat: Doing phonetics by com-
puter [computer program],” http://www.praat.org/, 2021, version
6.1.48, retrieved 18 February 2021.
[19] P. E. Nordstr ¨om and B. Lindblom, “A normalization procedure
for vowel formant data,” in Proc. 8th International Congress of
Phonetic Sciences, Leeds, England, 1975, as presented in John-
son, K. 2020, The F method of vocal tract length normalization
for vowels , Laboratory Phonology, 11(1): 10, pp. 1–16, DOI:
10.5334/labphon.196.
[20] K. Johnson, “The δf method of vocal tract length normalization
for vowels,” Laboratory Phonology: Journal of the Association
for Laboratory Phonology, vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 10, 1–16, 2020.
[21] G. de Krom, “Some spectral correlates of pathological breathy and
rough voice quality for different types of vowel fragments,”Jour-
nal of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research , vol. 38, no. 4,
pp. 794–811, 1995.
693
