SOVA-Bench: Benchmarking the Speech Conversation Ability for LLM-based
Voice Assistant
Yixuan Hou1,†, Heyang Liu1,2,†, Yuhao Wang1,2, Ziyang Cheng3, Ronghua Wu2, Qunshan Gu2,∗,
Yanfeng Wang1, Yu Wang1,∗
1School of Artificial Intelligence, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, China; 2Ant Group, China;
3School of Cyber Science and Engineering, Wuhan University, China
{yixuan303a,liuheyang,colane,wangyanfeng622,yuwangsjtu}@sjtu.edu.cn,
{r.wu,guqunshan.gqs}@antgroup.com,icelookgoose@gmail.com
Abstract
Thanks to the steady progress of large language models
(LLMs), speech encoding algorithms and vocoder structure, re-
cent advancements have enabled generating speech response
directly from a user instruction. However, benchmarking the
generated speech quality has been a neglected but critical is-
sue, considering the shift from the pursuit of semantic accu-
racy to vivid and spontaneous speech flow.
Previous evalu-
ation focused on the speech-understanding ability, lacking a
quantification of acoustic quality. In this paper, we propose
Speech cOnversational Voice Assistant Benchmark (SOVA-
Bench), providing a comprehension comparison of the general
knowledge, speech recognition and understanding, along with
both semantic and acoustic generative ability between available
speech LLMs. To the best of our knowledge, SOVA-Bench is
one of the most systematic evaluation frameworks for speech
LLMs, inspiring the direction of voice interaction systems.
Index Terms: speech large language model, voice assistant,
evaluation benchmark
1. Introduction
Communication through speech outperforms text interaction for
its convenience and efficiency. Recent advancements in large
language models (LLMs) have led to remarkable breakthroughs
in speech LLMs and voice assistants. Starting from an LLM
trained on tremendous textual corpora, these models perceive
speech using an encoder with adaptors, generating the capabil-
ity to understand speech flow through supervised fine-tuning,
even producing speech response directly with a vocoder. The
most promising application of generative speech LLMs lies in
the voice assistant. It is proposed to respond to the user’s vocal
instructions with vivid and spontaneous speech, enabling ac-
curate and efficient interactions. One of most powerful LLM,
GPT-4o [1], has already supported speech modality interaction,
and then this ability has spread to open-sourced models, such as
Mini-Omni [2], LLaMA-Omni [3] and Moshi [4], showing the
promising path for speech-central human-machine interaction.
The lack of an evaluation system is one of the main factors
limiting the development of generative speech LLMs. Previous
work has predominantly adopted benchmarks for the model’s
understanding capabilities. Dynamic SUPERB provides a plat-
form to compare various models on plenty of speech-processing
tasks [5, 6]. AudioBench and AIR-Bench focus on the perfor-
mance of understanding various audio signals including human
speech and natural sound [7, 8]. VoiceBench measures voice
assistants for their capability of general knowledge, instruction
†These authors contributed equally.
*Corresponding Authors
A fly wearing a sweater bit me!
(in comforting tone) Don’t be afraid. A bee sting is not a 
big problem. You need to go to the hospital immediately. 
I will contact your parents right away.
Understanding
Generation
Emotion: sad and frightened
Gender: male
Age: immature
Paralinguistic
Knowledge Fly wearing a sweater
Bee
Speech Recognition  A fly wearing a sweater bit me.
Linguistic
- What should you do if stung by a bee? 
- Go to the hospital immediately.
Figure 1: Properties for an ideal voice assistant. The color of
the generated response corresponds to distinct aspects of the
user’s query. For example, if the model receives emotions of
sadness and fear, a comforting tone should usually be chosen.
following, robustness and safety alignment [9]. However, the
above benchmarks either only measure the model’s ability to
produce text responses or transform the speech response via an
automatic speech recognition (ASR) system. They assess un-
derstanding or text-based transformations, but fall short in eval-
uating the quality of the voice output itself—an essential factor
for voice assistants and other interactive systems.
To address this gap, we introduce an exhaustive benchmark,
Speech cOversational Voice Assistant Benchmark (SOVA-
Bench), to quantify the performance of generative speech
LLMs, especially voice assistants. As shown in Figure 1, an
ideal voice assistant should respond to user queries using pre-
served general knowledge based on instruction content, linguis-
tic, and paralinguistic information. SOVA-Bench evaluates the
models with distinct subsets. It ingests raw audio from multiple
datasets and presents in the format of question-answering (QA)
and instruction querying. By encompassing both understand-
ing and generation, including measures for tone, emotion, and
other paralinguistic cues, this method provides a more compre-
hensive evaluation framework that mirrors real-world commu-
nication requirements. Ultimately, it addresses a significant gap
in the field, paving the way for the development of advanced
generative speech models that deliver not only accurate infor-
mation but also a reliable, engaging, and human-like auditory
experience. Our main contributions are as follows:
• We propose SOVA-Bench, an evaluation system for genera-
tive speech LLMs and voice assistants, quantifying the per-
formance of general knowledge, as well as the ability to rec-
ognize, understand and generate speech flow.
• SOVA-Bench compares multiple generative speech models
under the same evaluation framework. Based on the com-
parison experiments, we identify the limitations of existing
voice interaction models.
• SOVA-Bench provides a standard for the evaluation of voice
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
5713
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1950

Table 1: Comparison with other available speech LLM evaluation benchmarks.
Benchmark
Num of Tasks
Knowledge
Recognition
Understanding
Generation
Evaluation Subject
Linguistic
Paralinguistic
Dynamic SUPERB Phase-2
180
✘
✔
✔
✔
✘
Universal Speech Models
AudioBench
8
✘
✔
✔
✔
✘
AudioLLMs
AIR-Bench
20
✘
✔
✔
✔
✘
AudioLLMs
VoiceBench
6
✔
✘
✔
✘
✘
LLM-based Voice Assistants
OpenAudioBench
3
✔
✘
✔
✘
✘
Audio-focused LLMs
SOVA-Bench (Ours)
8
✔
✔
✔
✔
✔
Generative Speech LLMs
interactive systems and facilitates subsequent researchers to
compare model performance.
2. Related Works
2.1. Speech LLM
Speech LLM extends the understanding capability to speech
flow, performing modality alignment between speech and text
via an encoder with adaptors. Earlier work focused on gen-
erating textual responses from speech instructions, optionally
adopting a TTS module for a cascaded speech-in-speech-out
paradigm, such as SALMONN [10], SpeechGPT [11] and
Qwen2-audio [12]. These models preserve the ability to un-
derstand speech signals while show a significant difference
from human-like real-time conversations and voice assistants.
The real-time API introduced by GPT-4o supports end-to-
end speech generation without an explicit TTS module.
It
can produce text and speech responses at the same time, en-
abling fluent and efficient communication with users. By uti-
lizing speech vocoder methods, several open-sourced models
have also achieved speech response from discrete acoustic to-
kens.
Mini-Omni [2] adopted SNAC [13] to quantify the
model’s response speech during training with a transformer-
based streaming audio decoder to covert the predicted embed-
ding to speech flow. LLaMA-Omni [3] alternatively discrete
continuous speech to units using pre-trained HuBERT [14], and
a HiFi-GAN vocoder [15, 16] for unit-to-speech. Moshi [4]
proposed a novel speech encoder, Mimi, incorporating both se-
mantic and acoustic speech embeddings for information extrac-
tion and generative speech wave construction. Other speech
LLMs that enable direct speech response include Westlake-
Omni [17], Freeze-Omni [18], SyncLLM [19], OmniFlatten
[20], etc. These models mainly follow a similar schema - gen-
erate discrete audio tokens using LLM before converting to
speech signals. The generative speech LLMs support real-time
communications, showing great potential for voice assistants.
2.2. Speech LLM evaluation
The evaluation of speech models is a contentious issue. For
specialized models, the comparison between reference and out-
put is widely adopted, such as automatic speech recognition
(ASR) and speech emotion recognition (SER) models.
For
speech LLMs with multiple capabilities, comprehensive eval-
uation benchmarks have been proposed to systematically assess
a model’s performance, as shown in Table 1. Dynamic SU-
PERB is a universal speech processing benchmark consisting of
33 tasks to evaluate speech models in a zero-shot fashion, and
then extend to 180 tasks in the 2nd phase [5, 6]. AudioBench
presents a set of measurements targeting at linguistic and par-
alinguistic speech understanding, and audio scene recognition
[7]. AIR-Bench encompasses a series of tasks to measure the
performance of understanding human speech, natural sound,
and music [8]. It preserves two dimensions - the foundation
benchmark for specialized ability and the chat benchmark for
general performance. These two benchmarks are originally de-
signed for Audio LLMs. VoiceBench aims at a multifaceted
evaluation for LLM-based voice assistants [9]. It distills proper
instances to access the model’s capability of general knowl-
edge, instruction following and safety alignment, along with
the robustness of speaker, environment and content variation.
OpenAudioBench is designed to assess the capabilities of mul-
timodal and audio-focused language models, consisting of sub-
sets of logical reasoning, general knowledge and open-ended
questions [21].
The above-mentioned benchmarks show the
same limitation, for they all concentrate on the understanding
capability while ignoring the generative performance.
3. SOVA-Bench
As shown in Table 2, SOVA-Bench aims to comprehensively
evaluate and compare speech LLMs’ abilities to perceive in-
structions and generate responses both in speech formats, there-
fore contributing to the evolution of voice assistants.
3.1. Voice Assistant Properties
Voice assistants are intelligent systems designed to enhance
human-computer interaction through natural speech processing,
understanding and generation. An ideal voice assistant shall
preserve such properties:
• General Knowledge: Voice assistants accumulate massive
and diverse general knowledge far beyond the level of nor-
mal human mastery. When the user proposes an inquiry, the
system responds accurately with high credit and confidence.
• Speech Recognition: Voice assistants enable speech recog-
nition, which is not only a common task benefiting user ex-
perience but also contributes to speech understanding.
• Speech Understanding: Voice assistants should understand
speech in both linguistic and paralinguistic dimensions. For
the former part, the system distills the semantic informa-
tion and responds accordingly. For the paralinguistic part,
it should generate messages such as the user’s identification
and emotion, therefore producing personalized responses.
• Speech Generation:
Voice assistants generate vivid and
spontaneous speech responses when being evoked. The gen-
erated speech should preserve high accuracy, fluency, and
clarity, and be consistent with its text transcription.
The
speech response quality should be evaluated from the per-
spective of both semantic and acoustic.
3.2. Source Dataset
General knowledge: To evaluate the general knowledge per-
formance of speech LLMs, SOVA-Bench incorporates Trivi-
aQA, an open-domain question-answering (QA) dataset with
multiple reference resources [22]. We utilize the unfiltered dev
set and remove the reference to form a knowledge QA dataset.
5714

Table 2: Statistics for SOVA-Bench
Dimension
Task
Source Data
Synthesized
Format
Input Modality
Num of Instances
Evaluation
Text
Speech
Method
Metrics
Knowledge
Knowledge QA
TriviaQA
✔
Open-domain
✘
✔
6840
GPTEval
Accuracy
Recognition
Speech Recognition
LibriSpeech
✘
✔
✔
Normal
WER
Linguistic
Spoken QA
LibriSQA
✘
Multi-choice (4)
✔
✔
2619
Normal
Accuracy
Spoken SQuAD
✔
Open-domain
✔
✔
3243
GPTEval
Accuracy
Paralinguistic
Emotion Recognition
IEMOCAP
✘
Multi-choice (5)
✔
✔
5819
GPTEval
Accuracy
Gender Recognition
Common Voice
✘
Multi choice (2)
✔
✔
2469
GPTEval
Accuracy
Age Recognition
Common Voice
✘
Multi-choice (5)
✔
✔
2511
GPTEval
Accuracy
Generation
Consistency
Alpaca
✔
Open-domain
✘
✔
3745
Normal
WER
Semantic
Alpaca
✔
Open-domain
✘
✔
3745
GPTEval
GPTScore
Acoustic
Alpaca
✔
Open-domain
✘
✔
3745
UTMOSv2
Score
Speech recognition: For ASR performance, we evaluate the
model’s performance with LibriSpeech [23]. All of the four
evaluation sets are tested for recognition accuracy.
Speech understanding: To measure the semantic understand-
ing of speech information, SOVA-Bench consists of two for-
mats of spoken QA - LibriSQA for multi-choice form and Spo-
ken SQuAD for open-ended test [24, 25]. LibriSQA is devel-
oped based on LibriSpeech with the help of ChatGPT, sharing
the same speech content. The comparison between the ASR
and SQA performance can reveal the inner process of models
to perceive and understand speech semantic information. In our
benchmark, we include the second part of LibriSQA to form a
simpler spoken language understanding task. Spoken SQuAD
is an open-domain QA dataset, while the right answer is in-
cluded in the speech transcription. We preserve a single ques-
tion for each valid sentence. For those with multiple answers,
we preserve the most complete one if they are in an inclu-
sion relationship, otherwise all answers are considered correct.
For paralinguistic understanding, SOVA-Bench includes emo-
tion recognition, gender recognition and age prediction. These
tasks cover the necessary user information required by voice
assistants. SOVA-Bench incorporates IEMOCAP for emotion
recognition [26].
The original source includes 10 emotions,
and we delete neutral kinds and merge indistinguishable cate-
gories to form a 5-choice selection task: angry, happy, fearful,
frustrated and sad, excited and surprised. For gender and age
recognition, we use the latest version of Common Voice [27].
Only those with speaker information annotations are preserved.
Speech generation: SOVA-Bench is developed for voice assis-
tants, following an instruction-inquiry scenery in the generation
performance evaluation. We use a cleaned version of Alpaca
[28]. We select a small portion and ensure the preserved in-
stances without additional input. This part includes user ques-
tions and instructions. The speech generation performance is
evaluated across 3 dimensions: the consistency between text
and speech response, and the semantic and acoustic quality. The
consistency is measured by using text response as transcription
and comparing with speech output. The semantic performance
is evaluated with GPT, and we implement one advanced MOS
predictor, UTMOSv2 [29], to quantify the acoustic score.
It should be noted that neither TriviaQA nor Alpaca
has speech audio.
We implement an advanced TTS model,
CosyVoice [30], to synthesize speech audio in a zero-shot fash-
ion. The speech prompt is derived from Common Voice, and we
select instances with speaker labels and ensure the gender-ratio
to 1:1. The synthesized speech is processed by Whisper-large-
v3 [31] to compare with the original transcription, and only
those with high accuracy are preserved. As illustrated in Fig-
ure 2, this synthesized method ensures the diversity of speak-
Whisper
CosyVoice
Multi-Speaker 
Prompt Set
Zero-Shot TTS
Synthesized
Speech
Compare & Check
Instruction & 
Question
Figure 2: Creation pipeline for dataset without speech modality.
A multi-speaker prompt set is adopted for zero-shot TTS.
ers and acoustic environments, thereby more robustly evaluat-
ing the performance.
4. Evaluation Experiment
4.1. Evaluated Models
We have tested various widely used voice assistants on SOVA-
bench, as shown in Table 3, including: Mini-Omni [2], Mini-
Omni2 [32], LLaMA-Omni [3], Freeze-Omni [18], Moshi
[4], and GLM-4-Voice [33].
Additionally, we developed a
cascade model for comparative evaluation, which combines
Whisper-large-v3 as the ASR model and GPT-4o-mini as the
LLM. Among these models, only LLaMA-Omni supports syn-
chronous inputs of both text and speech modalities, while Mini-
Omni and Mini-Omni2 support either text or speech at a time.
Table 3: The summarization of the tested speech LLMs. The
‘Modality’ column represents the input modalities, where ‘T’
and ‘S’ represent text and speech respectively.
Speech LLM
Architecture
Modalities
Speech Encoder
Base LLM
Mini-Omni
Whisper-small
Qwen2-0.5B
T ∨S
Mini-Omni2
Whisper-small
Qwen2-0.5B
T ∨S
Moshi
Mimi
Helium-7B
S
LLaMA-Omni
Whisper-large-v3
LLaMA-3.1-8B-Instruct
T ∧S
Freeze-Omni
CNN + Transformer
Qwen2-7B-Instruct
S
GLM-4-Voice
VQ + Whisper
GLM-4-9B
S
Cascade
Whisper-large-v3
GPT-4o-mini
S
It is important to note that for Moshi and GLM-4-Voice, we
randomly sampled 500 instances from each subset. Since Moshi
typically begins a conversation with an introductory statement
(e.g. ”Hey, how is everything going?”), we include 2.5 seconds
of blank audio before each input to avoid confusion.
5715

Table 4: Evaluation performance for speech LLMs on SOVA-Bench
Model
LLM size
Knowledge ↑
Recognition ↓
Understanding ↑
Generation ↑
dev clean/other
test clean/other
LibriSQA
Spoken SQuAD
Emotion
Age
Gender
Consistency
Semantic
Acoustic
Mini-Omni
0.5B
2.42
5.18 / 12.03
8.68 / 12.75
-
-
28.53
11.79
27.22
10.04
1.44
3.62
Mini-Omni2
0.5B
0.37
7.54 / 11.58
3.99 / 13.44
-
-
24.52
16.05
16.73
25.92
1.68
3.66
Moshi
7B
4.00
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
5.94
1.57
2.43
LLaMA-Omni
8B
24.91
>100
>100
50.67
43.07
37.74
19.43
78.41
4.71
3.28
3.61
Freeze-Omni
7B
27.27
3.29 / 7.40
3.24 / 7.68
-
-
38.31
17.80
39.13
10.96
3.20
3.46
GLM-4-Voice
7B
25.58
-
2.82 / 7.66
-
-
30.16
37.84
69.40
10.02
3.25
3.09
Cascade
-
58.98
1.92 / 3.77
1.81 / 3.62
81.11
93.05
-
-
-
-
3.88
-
Figure 3: Performance for paralinguistic understanding.
4.2. Main Results
The overall performance of tested speech LLMs is presented
in Table 4. We observe considerable variation in performance,
with no single model consistently outperforming across all
tasks.
Speech models with larger LLM parameters (7B, 8B) usu-
ally outperform smaller models (0.5B) on knowledge, speech
understanding and the semantic quality of generated responses.
These tasks largely depend on the capabilities preserved from
its LLM backbone. The cascade system preserves 58.98% ac-
curacy on knowledge QA, while the best speech LLM, Freeze-
Omni, achieves 27.27%. LLaMA-Omni is the only model sup-
porting the simultaneous input of both text and speech, but ex-
hibits a performance deficit of 30% and 50% in both spoken QA
formats compared to the cascade method. A strong performance
deterioration is observed when extending to speech modality.
Moshi achieves an inferior score, as its streaming modeling re-
sults in frequent interruptions and irrelevant responses.
Most speech LLMs demonstrate comparable performance
in speech recognition. The results of Freeze-Omni and GLM-
4-Voice are borrowed from their papers, as the intermediate
model and specific prompts are not available. LLaMA-Omni
could not perform speech recognition, for it does not involve
pre-training on the ASR task, resulting in irrelevant responses
given ASR instructions. Influenced by the capability of instruc-
tion following, the paralinguistic part of speech understanding
tasks is also affected. Besides the overall accuracy, as shown
in Figure 3, we simultaneously evaluated the model’s answer
rate (AR) and conditioned accuracy (CA), with the latter repre-
senting the proportion of correct responses among the answered
samples. LLaMA-Omni consistently exhibits high performance
in instruction following; however, the best model in terms of
conditioned accuracy is not the same across the three tasks.
Most speech LLMs lack sufficient capability to capture specific
paralinguistic information. LLaMA-Omni, Freeze-Omni, and
GLM-4-Voice demonstrated clearly above-chance accuracy in
gender prediction, while Mini-Omni and GLM-4-Voice showed
notable performance in age prediction. Emotion recognition
presents a special case for evaluation, as it is also significantly
influenced by semantic content. All models demonstrate pos-
itive performance on the emotion recognition task, with Mini-
Omni correctly identifying nearly half of the emotional labels.
Regarding the quality of generated speech, Moshi and
LLaMA-Omni exhibit strong speech-text consistency. In con-
trast, Mini-omni2 demonstrates the poorest performance, pri-
marily due to premature truncation occurring during the speech
generation process. LLaMA-Omni and GLM-4-Voice exhibit
the highest performance in terms of the semantic quality of gen-
erated responses. Theoretically, a larger parameter LLM back-
bone is conducive to generating higher-quality responses, while
Moshi once again received a lower score due to an excessive
amount of irrelevant output. As for the acoustic quality, Mini-
Omni2 achieves the highest score, a little higher than Mini-
Omni and LLaMA-Omni. The acoustic performance is affected
by the speech token modeling method.
4.3. Limitations for current speech LLMs
Based on the experimental results from SOVA-Bench, we sum-
marize the current limitations of speech LLMs as follows:
• Limited input modalities: Only LLAMA-Omni supports si-
multaneous input of both speech and text. However, in voice
assistant scenarios, additional text information may be nec-
essary for optimal performance.
• Instruction following variability:
Most models typically
struggle to effectively follow instructions, particularly when
dealing with tasks not involved in their training process.
• Severe performance degradation: Introducing speech modal-
ities into LLMs often leads to a marked decline in general
knowledge, semantic understanding, and generation capabil-
ities. A critical challenge is to preserve the performance of
textual LLMs while supporting speech interactions.
• Unsatisfactory output speech quality: Some speech LLMs
exhibit limited speech-text consistency and speech quality.
These issues are not only related to the LLM used but also to
the speech tokenization and training schemes.
5. Conclusion
In this paper, we introduce a comprehensive benchmark, SOVA-
Bench, for evaluating generative speech LLMs from both se-
mantic and acoustic perspectives. Evaluation experiments on
novel speech-interactive models reveal variations in the qual-
ity of generated speech responses and a substantial degrada-
tion in performance compared to the cascade model, particu-
larly in general knowledge and speech understanding. Consid-
ering the deficiencies in unified evaluation standards within the
field of speech LLMs, especially voice assistants, SOVA-Bench
provides a systematic framework for comparing model perfor-
mance.
5716

6. Acknowledgements
This work was supported by the Shanghai Jiao Tong University
- Ant Group Intelligent Multimedia Joint Laboratory.
7. References
[1] A. Hurst, A. Lerer, A. P. Goucher, A. Perelman, A. Ramesh,
A. Clark, A. Ostrow, A. Welihinda, A. Hayes, A. Radford et al.,
“GPT-4o system card,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.21276, 2024.
[2] Z. Xie and C. Wu, “Mini-Omni: Language models can hear, talk
while thinking in streaming,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.16725,
2024.
[3] Q. Fang, S. Guo, Y. Zhou, Z. Ma, S. Zhang, and Y. Feng,
“LLaMA-Omni: Seamless speech interaction with large language
models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.06666, 2024.
[4] A. D´efossez, L. Mazar´e, M. Orsini, A. Royer, P. P´erez, H. J´egou,
E. Grave, and N. Zeghidour, “Moshi: a speech-text foundation
model for real-time dialogue,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.00037,
2024.
[5] C.-y. Huang, K.-H. Lu, S.-H. Wang, C.-Y. Hsiao, C.-Y. Kuan,
H. Wu, S. Arora, K.-W. Chang, J. Shi, Y. Peng et al., “Dynamic-
SUPERB: Towards a dynamic, collaborative, and comprehensive
instruction-tuning benchmark for speech,” in ICASSP 2024-2024
IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2024, pp. 12 136–12 140.
[6] C.-y. Huang, W.-C. Chen, S.-w. Yang, A. T. Liu, C.-A. Li, Y.-X.
Lin, W.-C. Tseng, A. Diwan, Y.-J. Shih, J. Shi et al., “Dynamic-
SUPERB Phase-2: A collaboratively expanding benchmark for
measuring the capabilities of spoken language models with 180
tasks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.05361, 2024.
[7] B. Wang, X. Zou, G. Lin, S. Sun, Z. Liu, W. Zhang, Z. Liu, A. Aw,
and N. F. Chen, “AudioBench: A universal benchmark for audio
large language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.16020, 2024.
[8] Q. Yang, J. Xu, W. Liu, Y. Chu, Z. Jiang, X. Zhou, Y. Leng, Y. Lv,
Z. Zhao, C. Zhou et al., “AIR-Bench: Benchmarking large audio-
language models via generative comprehension,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.07729, 2024.
[9] Y. Chen, X. Yue, C. Zhang, X. Gao, R. T. Tan, and H. Li,
“VoiceBench: Benchmarking llm-based voice assistants,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2410.17196, 2024.
[10] C. Tang, W. Yu, G. Sun, X. Chen, T. Tan, W. Li, L. Lu, Z. Ma,
and C. Zhang, “SALMONN:Towards generic hearing abilities for
large language models,” in The Twelfth International Conference
on Learning Representations,ICLR 2024, Vienna, Austria, May 7-
11, 2024.
[11] D. Zhang, S. Li, X. Zhang, J. Zhan, P. Wang, Y. Zhou, and X. Qiu,
“SpeechGPT: Empowering large language models with intrinsic
cross-modal conversational abilities,” in Findings of the Associ-
ation for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2023, 2023, pp.
15 757–15 773.
[12] Y. Chu, J. Xu, Q. Yang, H. Wei, X. Wei, Z. Guo, Y. Leng, Y. Lv,
J. He, J. Lin et al., “Qwen2-audio technical report,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2407.10759, 2024.
[13] H. Siuzdak, F. Gr¨otschla, and L. A. Lanzend¨orfer, “SNAC: Multi-
scale neural audio codec,” in Audio Imagination: NeurIPS 2024
Workshop AI-Driven Speech, Music, and Sound Generation.
[14] W.-N. Hsu, B. Bolte, Y.-H. H. Tsai, K. Lakhotia, R. Salakhutdi-
nov, and A. Mohamed, “Hubert: Self-supervised speech represen-
tation learning by masked prediction of hidden units,” IEEE/ACM
transactions on audio, speech, and language processing, vol. 29,
pp. 3451–3460, 2021.
[15] J. Kong, J. Kim, and J. Bae, “HiFi-GAN: Generative adversar-
ial networks for efficient and high fidelity speech synthesis,” Ad-
vances in neural information processing systems, vol. 33, pp.
17 022–17 033, 2020.
[16] A. Polyak, Y. Adi, J. Copet, E. Kharitonov, K. Lakhotia, W.-N.
Hsu, A. Mohamed, and E. Dupoux, “Speech resynthesis from
discrete disentangled self-supervised representations,” in INTER-
SPEECH 2021-Annual Conference of the International Speech
Communication Association, 2021.
[17] Xinchen-AI, “Westlake-Omni,”
https://github.com/xinchen-ai/
Westlake-Omni, 2024.
[18] X. Wang, Y. Li, C. Fu, L. Xie, K. Li, X. Sun, and L. Ma, “Freeze-
Omni: A smart and low latency speech-to-speech dialogue model
with frozen llm,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.00774, 2024.
[19] B. Veluri, B. Peloquin, B. Yu, H. Gong, and S. Gollakota, “Be-
yond turn-based interfaces: Synchronous llms as full-duplex dia-
logue agents,” in Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empiri-
cal Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2024, pp. 21 390–
21 402.
[20] Q. Zhang, L. Cheng, C. Deng, Q. Chen, W. Wang, S. Zheng,
J. Liu, H. Yu, and C. Tan, “OmniFlatten:
An end-to-end
GPT model for seamless voice conversation,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.17799, 2024.
[21] Y. Li, J. Liu, T. Zhang, S. Chen, T. Li, Z. Li, L. Liu, L. Ming,
G. Dong, D. Pan et al., “Baichuan-Omni-1.5 technical report,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.15368, 2025.
[22] M. Joshi, E. Choi, D. S. Weld, and L. Zettlemoyer, “TriviaQA:
A large scale distantly supervised challenge dataset for reading
comprehension,” in Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long
Papers), 2017, pp. 1601–1611.
[23] V. Panayotov, G. Chen, D. Povey, and S. Khudanpur, “Lib-
rispeech: an asr corpus based on public domain audio books,”
in 2015 IEEE international conference on acoustics, speech and
signal processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2015, pp. 5206–5210.
[24] Z. Zhao, Y. Jiang, H. Liu, Y. Wang, and Y. Wang, “LibriSQA: A
novel dataset and framework for spoken question answering with
large language models,” IEEE Transactions on Artificial Intelli-
gence, 2024.
[25] C.-H. Lee, S.-L. Wu, C.-L. Liu, and H. yi Lee, “Spoken SQuAD:
A study of mitigating the impact of speech recognition errors on
listening comprehension,” in Interspeech 2018, 2018, pp. 3459–
3463.
[26] C. Busso, M. Bulut, C.-C. Lee, A. Kazemzadeh, E. Mower,
S. Kim, J. N. Chang, S. Lee, and S. S. Narayanan, “IEMOCAP:
Interactive emotional dyadic motion capture database,” Language
resources and evaluation, vol. 42, pp. 335–359, 2008.
[27] R. Ardila, M. Branson, K. Davis, M. Kohler, J. Meyer, M. Hen-
retty, R. Morais, L. Saunders, F. Tyers, and G. Weber, “Common
Voice: A massively-multilingual speech corpus,” in Proceedings
of the Twelfth Language Resources and Evaluation Conference,
2020, pp. 4218–4222.
[28] R. Taori, I. Gulrajani, T. Zhang, Y. Dubois, X. Li, C. Guestrin,
P. Liang, and T. B. Hashimoto, “Stanford alpaca: an instruction-
following llama model (2023),” URL https://github. com/tatsu-
lab/stanford alpaca, vol. 1, no. 9, 2023.
[29] K. Baba, W. Nakata, Y. Saito, and H. Saruwatari, “The t05 sys-
tem for the voicemos challenge 2024: Transfer learning from deep
image classifier to naturalness mos prediction of high-quality syn-
thetic speech,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.09305, 2024.
[30] Z. Du, Q. Chen, S. Zhang, K. Hu, H. Lu, Y. Yang, H. Hu,
S. Zheng, Y. Gu, Z. Ma et al., “Cosyvoice: A scalable multi-
lingual zero-shot text-to-speech synthesizer based on supervised
semantic tokens,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.05407, 2024.
[31] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak
supervision,” in International conference on machine learning.
PMLR, 2023, pp. 28 492–28 518.
[32] Z. Xie and C. Wu, “Mini-Omni2: Towards open-source GPT-
4o with vision, speech and duplex capabilities,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.11190, 2024.
[33] A. Zeng, Z. Du, M. Liu, K. Wang, S. Jiang, L. Zhao, Y. Dong, and
J. Tang, “GLM-4-Voice: Towards intelligent and human-like end-
to-end spoken chatbot,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.02612, 2024.
5717
