warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Privacy-Preserving Speaker Verification via End-to-End Secure
Representation Learning
Chenguang Hu∗, Yaqian Hao∗, Fulin Zhang, Xiaoxue Luo, Yao Shen, Yingying Gao, Chao Deng,
Shilei Zhang†, Junlan Feng†
1China Mobile Research Institute, Beijing, China
2State Key Laboratory of Multimedia Information Processing, Peking University, Beijing, China
{huchenguang, haoyaqian, zhangfulin, luoxiaoxue, shenyao, gaoyingying, dengchao,
zhangshilei, fengjunlan}@chinamobile.com
Abstract
The widespread adoption of cloud-based speaker verifica-
tion raises privacy concerns, as unauthorized access to speaker
voice can be exploited for fraudulent purposes. In response,
privacy-preserving speaker verification (PPSV) schemes have
emerged to safeguard speaker information and prevent unau-
thorized access. However, existing PPSV methods often com-
promise accuracy in their efforts to protect privacy. To enhance
both privacy and accuracy, we propose an end-to-end frame-
work for speaker template encryption that simultaneously opti-
mizes verification and encryption tasks. Our approach enhances
the security and accuracy of speaker verification by introducing
quintuple loss and sharpness-aware minimization, respectively,
eliminating texture details that could be exploited by attack-
ers. We distill our methodologies into a PPSV method, Secure-
RawNet. Experimental results demonstrate that Secure-RawNet
achieves high accuracy and robust privacy protection.
Index Terms: privacy preservation, speaker verification, secu-
rity, end-to-end
1. Introduction
As speaker verification technology becomes increasingly
widespread, safeguarding the privacy of sensitive speaker em-
beddings has become a critical concern. During speaker verifi-
cation, clients share their voices with a server, thereby exposing
not only their conversations but also personal information that
can be inferred from their voices. Since speaker embeddings are
unique and private, using unencrypted speaker embeddings for
authentication poses significant security risks. Moreover, stor-
ing speaker embeddings in the cloud further heightens privacy
risks, as they can be misused to train voice cloning systems that
mimic users’ voices, posing a serious threat to personal privacy.
In response to growing security demands, the need for
privacy-preserving speaker verification (PPSV) has become in-
creasingly critical [1, 2, 3]. This technology aims to prevent the
leakage of users’ embeddings during the cloud-based speaker
verification, ensuring that sensitive data remains secure. Re-
cently, various PPSV schemes have been constructed to address
the forementioned challenges, including random matrix [4],
hash mapping [5] and homomorphic encryption [6].
However, these traditional PPSV methods still face chal-
lenges, primarily in effectively protecting speaker features.
Even subtle residual features can be exploited by attackers,
compromising security. Additionally, these methods typically
require an acoustic feature extraction module prior to speaker
embedding extraction.
The reliance on artificially designed
acoustic features, however, leads to information loss when com-
∗Equal Contribution. †: Corresponding Authors.
pared to directly using raw waveform input. Moreover, tradi-
tional approaches necessitate the design of a separate template
encryption module based on hash functions or matrices. The
use of these artificially defined encryption mechanisms further
limits the preservation of speaker information. The additional
acoustic feature extraction and encryption modules often nega-
tively impacts verification accuracy, underscoring the need for
exploring end-to-end (E2E) PPSV approaches.
To fill the gap, we propose a theoretically grounded and eas-
ily applicable framework for end-to-end PPSV, named Secure-
RawNet. To achieve a balance between privacy and optimal rec-
ognizability, we reconfigure the acoustic and encryption mod-
ules while preserving their core functionalities. Additionally,
we introduce a novel loss function and optimization strategy to
enhance both speaker recognizability and privacy. Experimental
results demonstrate that Secure-RawNet not only achieves high
speaker verification accuracy but also offers improved privacy
protection. Specifically, our main findings in this work cover
three distinct domains:
• Conceptually, we propose a novel end-to-end PPSV frame-
work that directly converts raw audio into encrypted embed-
dings which prevents the intermediate process from attacks.
By introducing random information (key) unrelated to iden-
tity into the network, we address the challenge of encrypting
speaker embeddings using neural networks.
• Technically, we develop a secure architecture named Secure-
RawNet that realizes our conceptual idea.
RawNet takes
raw waveform as input, thereby avoiding the loss of phase
or other information during feature extraction. We also in-
troduce quintuplet loss, which enables cancelability of en-
crypted templates with easily changeable keys.
• Experimentally, we conduct a thorough evaluation of state-
of-the-art PPSV works and demonstrate the feasibility of
achieving both high privacy and satisfactory speaker verifi-
cation performance. By extending the work of RawNet3 [7],
we illustrate that sharpness-aware minimization can further
push the limits of raw waveform speaker verification, partic-
ularly in terms of open-set generalizability.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2
presents the proposed end-to-end PPSV method in detail. The
experimental setup and results are presented in Section 3 and
Section 4, respectively. Finally, Section 5 concludes this work.
2. Method
Current speaker verification systems identify individuals by
comparing N-dimensional feature embeddings,
known as
speaker embeddings (templates).
The widespread use of
speaker verification has raised privacy concerns, as unautho-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
1508
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1096

Acoustic
Feature
Extraction
Privacy 
Protection 
Module
Voiceprint
Extraction
End-to-End privacy-preserving method
Speaker 
Embedding
Encrypted 
Speaker 
Embedding
Encrypted 
Speaker 
Embedding
Traditional privacy-preserving method
User Voice
Figure 1: Diagram comparing traditional and end-to-end privacy-preserving speaker verification systems. The traditional method em-
ploys a cascading structure, which leads to multiple instances of information loss. Moreover, the use of a shared matrix key increases
vulnerability to attacks. In contrast, the end-to-end privacy-preserving method enhances data security and user privacy while minimiz-
ing the impact on speaker verification accuracy.
rized access to speaker voice data can expose sensitive per-
sonal information. PPSV addresses these concerns by encod-
ing the raw waveform x using a model θ, ensuring that private
information cannot be inferred from the resulting speaker em-
bedding v = θ(x), while still retaining sufficient utility for
downstream speech tasks. In cases where a user’s embedding
is stolen, an unencrypted speaker verification model would re-
quire retraining, whereas a PPSV system would only necessitate
a key change.
2.1. End-to-End PPSV
This paper introduces an end-to-end PPSV system to address
the limitations of traditional methods. As depicted in Fig. 1,
conventional PPSV approaches involve multiple stages, includ-
ing acoustic feature extraction, speaker embedding extraction,
and template encryption, each requiring manual design, fine-
tuning, and domain-specific expertise. In contrast, the end-to-
end model integrates these complex and labor-intensive stages
into a single unified process, where all the feature extraction
and encryption processes are automatically learned by the net-
work. This allows server to calculate final output directly from
the original input without manually defined intermediate steps.
The end-to-end PPSV method directly converts user record-
ings into encrypted speaker embeddings, reducing the risk of at-
tacks on intermediate processes (acoustic features, unprotected
embeddings), and lowering computing time and resource con-
sumption. Besides, speaker independent random information
is added to the model in the form of key vector k, ensuring
that even if an intruder obtains the encrypted speaker embed-
ding, the user’s vocal characteristics cannot be reconstructed,
maintaining the irreversibility of encryption process. Moreover,
when the speaker embedding ciphertext is stolen, the system can
be restored by simply replacing the key, eliminating the need to
retrain model and ensuring the cancelability of the encryption
process. We implement this approach using the Secure-RawNet
architecture and Quintuplet Loss function, and further enhance
accuracy with sharpness-aware minimization(SAM) [8, 9, 10].
2.2. Secure-RawNet Architecture
First, the RawNet3-based [11] speaker classification model
is trained using AAM-Softmax loss [12] to ensure accurate
speaker verification. The feature extraction layers of the trained
RawNet3 model are then used as the feature extractor to obtain
speaker embeddings from the input waveform.
Next, a key is introduced for security training, utilizing the
Secure-RawNet network and quintuplet loss depicted in Fig. 2
to ensure the privacy protection of the feature template. In this
stage, the speaker embeddings are concatenated with the key
and passed through a fully connected layer. The network is op-
timized using quintuplet loss, which minimizes the distance be-
tween the pairs which match speaker and key while maximizing
the distance between mismatched pairs.
2.3. Quintuplet Loss
The quintuplet loss is a novel variant of the widely-used triplet
loss [13] for discriminative training. This approach enables the
training of end-to-end neural networks for secure speaker veri-
fication. During training, in addition to the classic triplet inputs
XA, XP and XN, the network also receives two different keys
(k1 and k2) bound to the input. The anchor XA is only matched
with correct key (k1), VA = θ(XA, k1). Similarly, the positive
and negative samples are processed twice by the network, once
with k1 and once with k2, yielding four vectors:
VP 1 = θ(XP , k1), VN1 = θ(XN, k1),
VP 2 = θ(XP , k2), VN2 = θ(XN, k2).
(1)
Then the distances between the anchor point VA and four sam-
ple features VP 1, VP 2, VN1, VN2 are calculated:
DP 1 = d(VA, VP 1), DN1 = d(VA, VN1),
DP 2 = d(VA, VP 2), DN2 = d(VA, VN2).
(2)
As shown in Fig 2, Secure-RawNet receives five inputs (quin-
tuplets) at once and optimizes the network by minimizing the
1509

quintuplet loss function (minimizing the distance DP 1 from the
positive samples to anchor and maximizing the distance DN1,
DN2 and DP 2 from negative samples to anchor). Additionally,
a margin constraint α is applied to ensure a minimum margin a
between the positive and negative pair distances. Two variants
of quintuplet loss are defined and compared in our experiments:
Lquin
1
(θ) = max(DP 1– min(DP 2, DN1, DN2) + α, 0). (3)
Lquin
2
(θ) = max(DP 1–DP 2 + α, 0)
+ max(DP 1–DN1 + α, 0)
+ max(DP 1–DN2 + α, 0).
(4)
These losses make sure that the representation that matches the
identity and key is closer to the anchor in the projection space
than the other three representations. Quintuplet loss enables us-
ing key vector to protect the speaker template without requiring
any additional steps outside of neural network. As a result, this
method fully leverages the capabilities of the end-to-end net-
work while ensuring the security of speaker embeddings.
2.4. Sharpness-Aware Minimization
To achieve better open-set speaker verification performance, it
is often preferable for an optimizer to converge to flat min-
ima, which are characterized by uniformly low loss values,
rather than sharp minima with abrupt loss changes. We adopt
sharpness-aware minimization (SAM) for this purpose, with the
objective function formulated as follows:
min
θ
max
∥ϵ∥2≤ρ L(θ + ϵ) + β∥θ∥2
2,
(5)
where ρ denotes the radius of the L2 norm ball centered at
the model parameters θ.
By minimizing both training loss
and loss sharpness simultaneously, SAM-based optimizer seeks
models situated in neighborhoods characterized by consistently
low loss values, resulting in better generalization for open-set
speaker verification.
FC
Concatenate with Key
Key
(64×1)
320 × 1
256 × 1
AFMS-Res2MP-block × 3
Conv1D + ReLU
Channel & Context SP + FC
ParamFbank + ReLU + BN
input: 1×T
4/C × (T/S)
3C × (T/15S)
1536 × (T/15S)
256 × 1
VA
α
VP1
VP2
VN1
VN2
RawNet3
Figure 2: Left: Quintuplet Loss, which promotes the proximity
between positive sample VP 1 and anchor representation VA,
while pushing three negative samples (VP 2, VN1, VN2) away.
Right: Secure-RawNet building block. During the first stage of
training, only the RawNet3 network (blue) is optimized. In the
second stage, the parameters of RawNet3 are frozen, and the
key-related layers (yellow) are optimized using quintuplet loss.
3. Experiments
During training, the key is represented as a random vector, en-
abling users to specify a custom key during enrollment after
model training. If no key is provided during users’ enrollment,
the system assigns a random key by default. This randomness
ensures that the model learns the relationship between the key
and the speaker rather than relying on a fixed key pattern. After
training Secure-RawNet, users can set an arbitrary key during
registration and modify it freely in response to potential attacks,
without requiring model retraining.
3.1. Dataset and Configuration
We utilized both the development portions of VoxCeleb1 and
VoxCeleb2 [14, 15], whereas, for the evaluation, the Vox1-O
test trials were employed. To enhance model robustness, we
applied online data augmentation techniques [16] with MU-
SAN [17] and RIR datasets [18]. Additionally, speed pertur-
bation [19] with 0.9 and 1.1 times was used to make the number
of speakers in the training dataset tripled.
For each utterance, a 300-frame segment was randomly
selected.
No pre-processing, such as acoustic feature ex-
traction or normalization, was applied to the raw waveforms.
Training was conducted using PyTorch, employing SAM-based
Adam/AdamW optimizer [20, 21, 22]. The learning rate, sched-
uled between 5e-4 and 3e-6, followed a cosine annealing strat-
egy [23] over 60 epochs. We use cosine distance as the similar-
ity criterion with scores calibrated using adaptive score normal-
ization (AS-Norm) with an imposter cohort size of 600.
3.2. Evaluation Metrics
The experiments are designed to evaluate the performance of
the models trained with quintuplet loss, not only considering
verification accuracy, but also speaker security. Measuring how
much information an observation leaks about a secret quantity
it depends on is a classical question that has long been studied
in information theory. We select RI [24] as the main metric of
security, which can be expressed as:
RI = I(X; Y )
H(X) ,
(6)
where I(X; Y ) is the mutual information of unprotected tem-
plate X and the protected template Y , and H(X) is the entropy
of X. Low RI means even when one has all knowledge of v ,
obtaining information on x should be impossible. Speaker ver-
ification accuracy is reported using the equal error rate (EER)
and minimum detection cost function (min-DCF) [25].
4. Results and Discussion
A general overview of the results obtained is presented in Table
1 for accuracy and security. The following subsections discuss
the results on radius ρ of SAM-based optimizer, margin, dimen-
sion of key vector and number of quintuplets.
4.1. Speaker Verification Performance
The results of speaker verification are presented in Table 1,
which demonstrate that the proposed quintuplet loss effec-
tively optimizes end-to-end privacy-preserving speaker verifi-
cation models. Both Lquin
1
and Lquin
2
yielded relatively low
EERs indicating the effectiveness of the end-to-end approach.
Secure-RawNet with loss Lquin
2
achieved an EER of 0.7872%,
marking a significant performance improvement over the tra-
ditional PPSV methods. In contrast, previous methods (secure
1510

multiparty and attribute- or matrix-based1 approaches), exhibit
higher EERs and greater information leakage, underscoring the
privacy risks associated with these techniques. Our proposed
system successfully encodes raw waveform into secure speaker
templates without revealing privacy-sensitive information.
Further analysis of verification scores, as shown in the his-
togram in Figure 3 (a), reveals distinct score distributions for
target and non-target trials. Target scores exhibit a peak dis-
tribution, while non-target scores display a smoother distribu-
tion due to mismatches in key or identity. Without forcing the
model to adhere to predefined encodings during training, the
learned representations exhibit intra-class compactness and di-
versity between the same user’s enrollment and various speaker
verification attempts.
Table 1: Speaker verification and secrecy leakage evaluation
Method
EER(%)↓
min-DCF↓
RI(%)↓
Gaussian Matrix [26]
1.1259
0.077
1.04
Random Matrix [4]
0.9154
0.066
1.52
Secure Multiparty [27]
3.2
0.205
-
Attribute Driven [28]
2.36
0.154
-
Secure-RawNet (Lquin
1
)
1.0228
0.074
0.39
Secure-RawNet (Lquin
2
)
0.7872
0.065
0.31
Figure 3: (a) Score distribution of Secure-RawNet on Vox1-O
set. (b) The EER evolution with standard Adam and SAM-based
Adam on Vox1-O set.
4.2. Privacy Preservation Performance
Regarding the privacy preservation and secrecy leakage eval-
uation, the safety metrics are summarized in Table 1. Simi-
larly, both Lquin
1
and Lquin
2
losses resulted in low secrecy leak-
age (RI), indicating that the keys used to make the templates
cancelable reveal no information on them. This suggests that
it is highly challenging for an attacker to recover the original
speaker embedding x from the compromised templates v gen-
erated by the Secure-RawNet model. The optimized privacy-
preserving model compresses the inputs retaining only the in-
formation needed for speaker related tasks.
These findings on mutual information and secrecy leakage
highlight the significant advantages of using E2E deep learn-
ing models for privacy preservation. Neural network is used
not only to model the speaker embedding space, but also pri-
vacy protection algorithm and acoustic feature extraction mod-
1We found no open-source code for two matrix-based methods.
We reproduce them to our best effort, recognizing the possibility of
inconsistencies.
ules. By integrating information security with similarity mea-
surement techniques, our proposed PPSV system effectively en-
sures the security of speaker templates.
4.3. Ablation study
An ablation study was conducted on the proposed system’s pa-
rameters to assess their impact. As shown in Table 2, incorpo-
rating SAM resulted in a relative EER reduction of 11.37% and
13.19% for Adam and AdamW, respectively, indicating signif-
icantly improved generalization. Additionally, SAM also op-
timized convergence speed and enhanced training stability, as
illustrated in Figure 3 (b). While performance may vary de-
pending on specific scenarios, a ρ value between 0.01 and 0.03
is expected to yield the highest likelihood of success.
Table 2: Evaluation on speaker verification with SAM optimizer
Model
With
Param
EER(%)↓
SAM
ρ
Adam
AdamW
RawNet3 [7]
-
-
0.8882
1.1701
Secure-RawNet
✓
0.005
0.8084
1.1514
Secure-RawNet
✓
0.010
0.7905
1.0903
Secure-RawNet
✓
0.030
0.8084
1.0158
Secure-RawNet
✓
0.050
0.8616
1.0793
A major caveat of the quintuplet loss, though, is that as the
dataset gets larger, the number of quintuplets (Nq) grows cu-
bically, rendering a long enough training impractical. Table 3
presents the EER and RI obtained by varying parameters that
balance the security and accuracy. Notably, varying the margin
(α) and key dimension (Dk) affects performance, with α = 0.3
and Dk = 64 yielding the lowest EER values. The results un-
derscore the significance of margin and key dimension, with the
suitable configuration leading to superior safety and precision.
Table 3: Effects of margin and the dimension of key
Margin
Dimensionkey
EER(%)↓
min-DCF↓
0
64
1.5734
0.109
0.3
64
0.7905
0.065
0.6
64
0.8561
0.067
1
64
0.8883
0.067
0.3
32
0.8229
0.063
0.3
64
0.7905
0.065
0.3
128
0.8602
0.064
5. Conclusion
The end-to-end privacy-preserving speaker verification system
proposed in this paper achieves both enhanced security and ac-
curacy through a learnable encryption. The neural network is
utilized not only to model the speaker embedding space but
also to incorporate privacy protection algorithms and acoustic
feature extraction. By using an end-to-end network to learn
the privacy protection algorithm, rather than explicitly defin-
ing it, the model is able to develop a more secure speaker
embedding space. Experimental results and analysis demon-
strate the effectiveness and generalizability of the proposed
Secure-RawNet model, highlighting its superiority over tradi-
tional privacy-preserving methods in the literature. Moreover,
this work identifies accuracy vulnerabilities in evaluated state-
of-the-art PPSV schemes, providing a foundation for the devel-
opment of more effective countermeasures.
1511

6. References
[1] Sameer Wagh, Shruti Tople, Fabrice Benhamouda, Eyal Kushile-
vitz, Prateek Mittal, and Tal Rabin,
“Falcon: Honest-majority
maliciously secure framework for private deep learning,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2004.02229, 2020.
[2] Octavian Catrina and Sebastiaan De Hoogh, “Improved primitives
for secure multiparty integer computation,” in Security and Cryp-
tography for Networks: 7th International Conference, SCN 2010,
Amalfi, Italy, September 13-15, 2010. Proceedings 7. Springer,
2010, pp. 182–199.
[3] Jun Furukawa, Yehuda Lindell, Ariel Nof, and Or Weinstein,
“High-throughput secure three-party computation for malicious
adversaries and an honest majority,”
in Annual international
conference on the theory and applications of cryptographic tech-
niques. Springer, 2017, pp. 225–255.
[4] Chuan Zhang, Liehuang Zhu, and Chang Xu,
“Ptbi: An ef-
ficient privacy-preserving biometric identification based on per-
turbed term in the cloud,”
Information Sciences, vol. 409, pp.
56–67, 2017.
[5] Abelino Jim´enez, Bhiksha Raj, Jose Portelo, and Isabel Trancoso,
“Secure modular hashing,” in 2015 IEEE international workshop
on information forensics and security (WIFS). IEEE, 2015, pp.
1–6.
[6] Andreas Nautsch,
Sergey Isadskiy,
Jascha Kolberg,
Marta
Gomez-Barrero, and Christoph Busch, “Homomorphic encryp-
tion for speaker recognition: Protection of biometric templates
and vendor model parameters,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.03559,
2018.
[7] Jee-weon Jung, You Jin Kim, Hee-Soo Heo, Bong-Jin Lee,
Youngki Kwon, and Joon Son Chung,
“Pushing the lim-
its of raw waveform speaker recognition,”
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2203.08488, 2022.
[8] Pierre Foret, Ariel Kleiner, Hossein Mobahi, and Behnam
Neyshabur,
“Sharpness-aware minimization for efficiently im-
proving generalization,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.01412, 2020.
[9] Maksym Andriushchenko and Nicolas Flammarion,
“Towards
understanding sharpness-aware minimization,” in International
Conference on Machine Learning. PMLR, 2022, pp. 639–668.
[10] Yaqian Hao, Chenguang Hu, Yingying Gao, Shilei Zhang, and
Junlan Feng,
“Exploring energy-based models for out-of-
distribution detection in dialect identification,” Interspeech 2024,
1640–1644.
[11] Seung-bin Kim, Chan-yeong Lim, Jungwoo Heo, Ju-ho Kim,
Hyun-seo Shin, Kyo-Won Koo, and Ha-Jin Yu,
“Mr-rawnet:
Speaker verification system with multiple temporal resolutions for
variable duration utterances using raw waveforms,” in Proc. In-
terspeech, 2024.
[12] Deng, Jiankang, Jia Guo, Niannan Xue, and Stefanos Zafeiriou,
“Arcface: Additive angular margin loss for deep face recognition.”
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition, pp. 4690-4699. , 2019.
[13] Herv´e Bredin,
“Tristounet: triplet loss for speaker turn em-
bedding,” in 2017 IEEE international conference on acoustics,
speech and signal processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2017, pp. 5430–
5434.
[14] Arsha Nagrani, Joon Son Chung, and Andrew Zisserman, “Vox-
celeb: a large-scale speaker identification dataset,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1706.08612, 2017.
[15] Joon Son Chung, Arsha Nagrani, and Andrew Zisserman,
“Voxceleb2:
Deep speaker recognition,”
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1806.05622, 2018.
[16] Weicheng Cai, Jinkun Chen, Jun Zhang, and Ming Li, “On-the-fly
data loader and utterance-level aggregation for speaker and lan-
guage recognition,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech,
and Language Processing, vol. 28, pp. 1038–1051, 2020.
[17] David Snyder, Guoguo Chen, and Daniel Povey, “Musan: A mu-
sic, speech, and noise corpus,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1510.08484,
2015.
[18] Tom Ko, Vijayaditya Peddinti, Daniel Povey, Michael L Seltzer,
and Sanjeev Khudanpur, “A study on data augmentation of rever-
berant speech for robust speech recognition,” in 2017 IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP). IEEE, 2017, pp. 5220–5224.
[19] Weiqing Wang, Danwei Cai, Xiaoyi Qin, and Ming Li,
“The
dku-dukeece systems for voxceleb speaker recognition challenge
2020,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.12731, 2020.
[20] P Kingma Diederik, “Adam: A method for stochastic optimiza-
tion,” (No Title), 2014.
[21] Ilya Loshchilov, Frank Hutter, et al., “Fixing weight decay reg-
ularization in adam,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.05101, vol. 5,
2017.
[22] Shun-ichi Amari, “Backpropagation and stochastic gradient de-
scent method,” Neurocomputing, vol. 5, no. 4-5, pp. 185–196,
1993.
[23] I. Loshchilov and F. Hutter, “Sgdr: Stochastic gradient descent
with warm restarts,” Proc. ICLR, 2017.
[24] Alexander Kraskov, Harald St¨ogbauer, and Peter Grassberger,
“Estimating mutual information,” Physical Review E—Statistical,
Nonlinear, and Soft Matter Physics, vol. 69, no. 6, pp. 066138,
2004.
[25] Zahi N Karam, William M Campbell, and Najim Dehak, “To-
wards reduced false-alarms using cohorts,” in 2011 IEEE inter-
national conference on acoustics, speech and signal processing
(ICASSP). IEEE, 2011, pp. 4512–4515.
[26] Yongjin Wang and Konstantinos N Plataniotis, “An analysis of
random projection for changeable and privacy-preserving biomet-
ric verification,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cyber-
netics, Part B (Cybernetics), vol. 40, no. 5, pp. 1280–1293, 2010.
[27] Francisco Teixeira, Alberto Abad, Bhiksha Raj, and Isabel Tran-
coso,
“Towards end-to-end private automatic speaker recogni-
tion,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.11750, 2022.
[28] Paul-Gauthier No´e, Mohammad Mohammadamini, Driss Ma-
trouf, Titouan Parcollet, Andreas Nautsch, and Jean-Franc¸ois
Bonastre,
“Adversarial disentanglement of speaker representa-
tion for attribute-driven privacy preservation,”
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2012.04454, 2020.
1512

