warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Transcript-Prompted Whisper with Dictionary-Enhanced Decoding for
Japanese Speech Annotation
Rui Hu1, Xiaolong Lin1, Jiawang Liu1, Shixi Huang1, Zhenpeng Zhan1
1Baidu Inc., Shenzhen, China
hurui05@baidu.com
Abstract
In this paper, we propose a method for annotating phone-
mic and prosodic labels on a given audio-transcript pair, aimed
at constructing Japanese text-to-speech (TTS) datasets. Our ap-
proach involves fine-tuning a large-scale pre-trained automatic
speech recognition (ASR) model, conditioned on ground truth
transcripts, to simultaneously output phrase-level graphemes
and annotation labels. To further correct errors in phonemic
labeling, we employ a decoding strategy that utilizes dictionary
prior knowledge. The objective evaluation results demonstrate
that our proposed method outperforms previous approaches re-
lying solely on text or audio. The subjective evaluation results
indicate that the naturalness of speech synthesized by the TTS
model, trained with labels annotated using our method, is com-
parable to that of a model trained with manual annotations.
Index Terms: speech annotation, fine-tuning, error correction,
text-to-speech, Japanese
1. Introduction
The field of text-to-speech (TTS) has seen significant advance-
ments in the past few years.
Recent studies [1, 2, 3] have
demonstrated that large models trained on massive datasets can
synthesize natural speech directly from grapheme sequences,
eliminating the need for more fine-grained inputs such as
phonemes. This is particularly notable in alphabetic languages
like English. However, challenges persist for Japanese TTS due
to the presence of numerous polyphones and the critical role that
pitch accent plays in affecting the naturalness of speech [4, 5].
Most TTS datasets consist solely of audio-transcript pairs,
as obtaining manually annotated phonemic and prosodic labels
is prohibitively expensive. As a result, many TTS systems rely
on text-based frontends [6, 7, 8] during data pre-processing.
However, these modules can be inaccurate due to the one-to-
many mapping problem between text and audio, where certain
characters or words can have multiple pronunciations depend-
ing on the context. This issue is especially pronounced in the
case of Japanese because: 1) there are a lot of polyphones; 2)
each word has its own accent nucleus (the mora at which the
pitch-downstep occurs), and adjacent words often combine to
form an accent phrase and create a new accent nucleus, based
on the speaker’s interpretation of the context [8].
Several recent studies have explored the use of audio infor-
mation during data pre-processing. Researchers in [9] proposed
a sequence-to-sequence model capable of simultaneously tran-
scribing and annotating audio with linguistic information more
accurately than methods based solely on text. Building upon
this, work in [10] further demonstrated the promising perfor-
mance of fine-tuning a large-scale pre-trained automatic speech
recognition (ASR) model to predict phonemic and prosodic la-
bels from unlabeled speech data. However, through prelimi-
nary experiments, we found that annotation models only con-
ditioned on audio tend to produce errors related to phonetically
similar sounds. Some studies have attempted to leverage both
text and audio information to obtain more precise annotations.
[11] achieved automatic prosody labeling using text-audio data
via a speech-text model while [12] proposed a Grapheme-to-
Phoneme (G2P) module utilizing both text and aligned audio
to overcome pronunciation ambiguity. However, these methods
either only focus on prosody annotation or rely on complicated
pipelines.
In the field of ASR, Whisper [13] is a Transformer-
based [14] robust foundation model pre-trained on multiple
tasks and large-scale data. Several recent works [15, 16, 17,
18] have demonstrated that fine-tuning Whisper with prompts
can achieve impressive performance in recognizing domain-
sensitive speech, spoken name entity, target speaker speech and
disordered speech, respectively.
Inspired by previous works, this paper proposes fine-tuning
Whisper conditioned on ground truth transcripts to simultane-
ously produce phrase-level graphemes along with their phone-
mic and prosodic labels (hereinafter referred to as TTS la-
bels) from speech data. To further improve the performance of
phonemic labeling, we employ a decoding strategy that lever-
ages dictionary prior knowledge. We conduct two experiments
to evaluate the effectiveness of our method. The first one is an
objective evaluation. We begin by verifying that the graphemes
of each phrase align faithfully with the given transcript. Then
we calculate the character error rate (CER) for phonemic label-
ing, as well as the accuracy of accent phrase boundary predic-
tion and the F1 scores for mora-level pitch sequence in prosodic
labeling.
The second one is a subjective evaluation, where
human raters assess the naturalness of speech synthesized by
TTS models trained on labels generated by different annotation
methods. Experimental results show that the proposed method
produces more accurate TTS labels and helps enhance the per-
formance of TTS models in terms of naturalness. Audio sam-
ples are available on our demo page1.
2. Method
2.1. Notation method for TTS labels
Japanese is a pitch-accent language with a writing system that
combines logograms (Kanji) with phonograms (Hiragana and
Katakana). As depicted in Figure 2, annotation for Japanese ut-
terances typically consists of transcript and pitch status aligned
at the mora level. We adopt the notation method proposed in [5]
to construct TTS labels from the annotations following the rules
1https://hurui0318.github.io/japanese-annotator-demo/
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2540
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-76

御幸せに
SOP
SOT
御幸せに
｜
オ
[
シ
ヤ
ワ
セ
ニ
Log-Mel Spectrogram
...
御幸せに
｜
オ
[
シ
ア
ワ
セ
ニ
#
Encoder
御幸せに
｜
オ
[
シ
ヤ
ワ
セ
ニ
#
Dictionary-Enhanced 
Decoding Strategy
御
幸せ
に
オ
ゴ
ミ
...
シアワセ
ニ
Cross-Attention
Decoder
Transcript
Graphemes
TTS Labels
special token
transcript
grapheme
delimiter
phonemic label
prosodic label
All Possible 
Pronunciations
Figure 1: Overview of proposed annotation model with a decoding strategy that leverages dictionary prior knowledge.
輪廻
は
廻っ
N
ri
ne wa
ma
wa Q
te
リ
]
ンネワ# マ
[
ワッて_
TTS Labels
Pitch
Transcript
H
L
、
て
Figure 2: Example of Japanese speech annotation for “輪廻
は廻って、” (The cycle of reincarnation turns, and...). The
yellow squares denote the transcript segmented into accent
phrases, with each accent phrase further divided into individual
words. The white circles in gray area indicate the pitch status
(high or low) of each mora. The red and blue squares denote
phonemic and prosodic labels, respectively.
of Tokyo dialect. The TTS labels use the following symbols
to represent phonemic and prosodic information: (1) Katakana
characters indicating pronunciation; (2) “[” for pitch rising; (3)
“]” for pitch falling; (4) “#” for accent phrase boundary; (5) “ ”
for pause.
2.2. Annotation model
Whisper is a robust ASR model based on the encoder-decoder
Transformer architecture, pre-trained on a large amount of data.
The encoder processes log-Mel spectrograms to extract high-
level hidden representations, while the decoder incorporates en-
coder output through cross-attention mechanism and generates
transcripts in an auto-regressive manner. In the decoder input,
we can use a <startofprev> token to represent the begin-
ning of previous context and a <startoftranscript> to-
ken to indicate the beginning of transcription.
Researchers in [10] first proposed fine-tuning pre-trained
Whisper model to produce TTS labels conditioned on audio.
However, in our preliminary experiments, we observed that the
model tends to lose some semantic knowledge acquired during
pre-training. Consequently, it is prone to making mistakes such
Table 1: Examples of errors produced by the annotation model.
“Content” denotes the ground truth transcript of speech con-
tent. “Reference” and “Prediction” refer to the annotations
from the human annotator and the annotation model, respec-
tively.
Source
Example
Content
成功してもしなくても
Reference
セ[ーコーシテ]モ#シ[ナ]クテモ#
Prediction
セ[ーコーシテ]モ#シ[ナ]クタモ#
Content
漁業と商業
Reference
ギョ]ギョート#ショ]ーギョーデ#
Prediction
ギョ]ーギョート#ショ]ーギョーデ#
Content
新しい家
Reference
ア[タラシ]ー#イ[エ]オ#
Prediction
ア[タラシ]ー#エ]オ#
as failing to distinguish between phonetically similar sounds,
omitting or adding certain pronunciations. Some examples are
shown in Table 1. We speculate that this is likely because the
model relies solely on speech as input, with training targets lim-
ited to TTS labels. To mitigate this, inspired by [9], we also at-
tempted to have the model simultaneously output phrase-level
graphemes and TTS labels, expecting that the model would un-
derstand the speech content before annotation. We found that
the model has shown some improvements but errors still per-
sist. This is reasonable since the base model, Whisper, is not a
perfect transcriber. Therefore, during inference, the preceding
graphemes may be inaccurate and could provide insufficient,
even misleading guidance for the subsequent decoding of TTS
labels.
Our proposed annotation model, however, takes both au-
dio and its transcript as input and is required to output phrase-
level graphemes along with their TTS labels.
As illus-
trated in Figure 1, the transcript is tokenized and placed be-
2541

tween <startofprev> and <startoftranscript> as
a prompt to the decoder. Symbol “|” is the delimiter between
graphemes and TTS labels of each phrase. In this approach,
the decoder can attend to both the acoustic information from in-
put speech and the semantic information of the transcript when
generating labels.
2.3. Decoding strategy
Upon close examination, we still found the aforementioned er-
rors present in the phonemic labeling of Kanji characters. Since
the model is requested to sequentially output the graphemes and
TTS labels of each accent phrase during decoding, we can uti-
lize the preceding graphemes and a dictionary to correct the fol-
lowing phonemic labels.
As shown in Figure 1, when the annotation mode de-
codes an accent phrase boundary symbol “#”, we first get the
graphemes and TTS labels for the phrase based on the delimiter
“|”. The predicted TTS labels are converted into pronunciation
in Katakana and accent type (the position of mora where accent
nucleus appears) following the rules of Tokyo dialect. Then we
use MeCab [19] with UniDic [20] to segment the graphemes
into words and look up each word’s candidate pronunciations to
get all possible pronunciations for the phrase. Next, we select
the one with the shortest edit distance to the pronunciation pre-
dicted by the annotation model as the corrected pronunciation.
After this, we need to restore it to the form of TTS labels with
some modifications to the accent type. As shown in Equation 1,
the accent type remains unchanged for phrases whose mora size
stays the same after pronunciation correction or when the orig-
inal accent type is 0 (flat), 1 (head high) or n (tail high), where
n is the mora size. For the rest (middle high), the modified ac-
cent type Amod is calculated by adding the difference between
the mora size of the corrected phrase Mmod and that of the orig-
inal phrase Morig to the original accent type Aorig. Finally, we
replace the original TTS labels with the corrected ones and con-
tinue with the decoding of subsequent phrases.
Amod =
(
Aorig,
Aorig ∈{0, 1, n},
Aorig + (Mmod −Morig),
Aorig ∈{2, . . . , n −1}.
(1)
Note that the restoration of TTS labels is not perfect but we
show that the impact is minimal in the subsequent experiments.
3. Experimental setup
3.1. Evaluation metrics
In the experiments, we aim to evaluate our proposed annotation
method in three aspects:
• The alignment of predicted phrase-level graphemes with the
given transcript.
• The performance of phonemic and prosodic labeling.
• The effectiveness of its application in TTS systems.
We first segment the predicted utterance-level TTS labels
into accent phrases based on the accent phrase boundary symbol
“#”. For each accent phrase, we divide it into graphemes and
TTS labels using the delimiter “|”. Following the rules of Tokyo
dialect, the phrase-level TTS labels are converted into phonemic
labels in Katakana and mora-level high-low pitch sequences as
prosodic labels. The phrase-level graphemes, phonemic labels
and prosodic labels are then concatenated back to the utterance
level, respectively. CERs are calculated for both the grapheme
sequences and phonemic labels.
Utterances where all models correctly predict the phonemic
labels are used for evaluating prosodic labeling. This is because
comparing ground truth prosodic labels with predicted ones be-
comes infeasible when the predicted phonemic labels are incor-
rect [10]. To evaluate the accuracy of accent phrase boundary
prediction, we calculate a metric defined as the number of cor-
rectly predicted accent phrases divided by the total number of
accent phrases in the manual annotations. For pitch labeling, we
compute F1 scores on the mora-level high-low pitch sequences.
Finally, we directly use the utterance-level TTS labels pro-
duced by the annotation model to train TTS models and con-
duct subjective listening test based on the mean opinion score
(MOS). Ten raters proficient in Japanese are asked to assess 50
randomly selected speech samples for pronunciation accuracy
and prosodic naturalness.
3.2. Data
We use three datasets for model training and evaluation:
JSUT:
a public Japanese speech corpus with a single female
voice [21]. The basic5000 subset and their manually anno-
tated TTS labels2 are used. The TTS labels are at the ac-
cent phrase level but there is no alignment information with
the text. Therefore, we feed them into GPT-4 [22] to obtain
phrase-level aligned annotations. The data are used for train-
ing annotation models.
PRIV:
a private Japanese speech corpus recorded by seven
male and four female professional native Japanese speak-
ers. It comprises 104,183 text samples and 121.82 hours of
speech, with annotations provided at the mora level. Data
from six male and four female speakers are used to train the
annotation models, while the remaining data from one male
speaker, consisting of 8,888 samples, are reserved for testing.
The held-out data are further randomly split into 7,110, 889
and 889 samples for training, validation and testing in TTS
experiments, respectively.
JVS:
a public Japanese speech corpus containing audio-
transcript pairs of 100 professional speakers [23]. We only
use the parallel100 and nonpara30 subsets, with a total of
13,000 samples. These samples are randomly divided into
10,400, 1300 and 1300 samples for training, validation and
testing in TTS experiments, respectively.
3.3. Model details
The proposed annotation model is fine-tuned from whisper-
large-v3-turbo3 for its robustness and inference speed, using
the transformers library [24]. The model is fine-tuned for 100k
steps with a batch size of 32 on a single A100 GPU. The learn-
ing rate is initialized at 0.00001 with 500 warm-up steps. Dur-
ing training, the labels for the prompt tokens are set to −100
to ignore loss calculation. Notably, in our preliminary experi-
ments, we found that directly using symbols, such as “#” could
lead to severe hallucinations during inference. We conjecture
that this is because these symbols have already been assigned
different meanings during pre-training, which are difficult to al-
ter through fine-tuning. Therefore, we use Unicode characters
U+2191, U+2193, U+2460, U+2462 and U+2223, which are
not present in the Whisper tokenizer’s vocabulary, to represent
2https://github.com/sarulab-speech/jsut-label
3https://huggingface.co/openai/whisper-large-v3-turbo
2542

“[”, “]”, “#”, “ ” and “|”, respectively. The following summa-
rizes the annotation methods used in our experiments:
NLP:
Open JTalk4, a text-based annotation method. We use
its Python wrapper5.
Annt-v1:
Whisper model that is conditioned solely on audio
and is fine-tuned to output TTS labels. We train two models
on JSUT and PRIV, referred to as Annt-v1-pub and Annt-
v1-priv.
Annt-v2:
Whisper model that is conditioned solely on audio
and is fine-tuned to outupt phrase-level graphemes and TTS
labels. We train two models on JSUT and PRIV, referred to
as Annt-v2-pub and Annt-v2-priv.
Annt-v3:
Proposed method where Whisper model is condi-
tioned on both audio and its corresponding transcript, fine-
tuned to output phrase-level graphemes and TTS labels. We
train two models on JSUT and PRIV, referred to as Annt-v3-
pub and Annt-v3-priv.
Annt-v4:
Annt-v3 incorporating proposed decoding strategy.
We apply it to both Annt-v3-pub and Annt-v3-prv, referred
to as Annt-v4-pub and Annt-v4-priv.
The TTS model is built upon VITS [25], an end-to-end ar-
chitecture that can synthesize high-quality speech. We use the
official implementation6 and train all models for 500k steps on a
single A100 GPU, adhering to the original configuration, using
TTS labels generated by the text-based method and annotation
models trained on PRIV. Additionally, we incorporate two more
sources to ensure a fairer comparison:
Reference:
Recorded speech samples.
Oracle:
TTS model trained on manually annotated labels.
Since JVS lacks manual annotations, we only train a model
on PRIV.
For each TTS model, we input the labels produced by its
corresponding annotation method to generate speech samples
for evaluation, ensuring consistency between training and infer-
ence.
4. Experimental results
We calculate the CER of grapheme sequences predicted by
Annt-v3-priv on the testing data of PRIV and the result is
0.16%. Interestingly, most of the errors occur when the model
changes graphemes to another form identical in pronunciation,
such as “ブィ” and “ビ”, or when it normalizes numbers,
such as converting “1週” to “一週”. One possible reason is
the inconsistency of annotation style across human annotators.
Therefore, we can assume that the predicted graphemes of each
accent phrase align well with the given transcript, ensuring the
feasibility of our proposed decoding strategy.
Table 2 shows the objective evaluation results on the PRIV
testing data. All annotation models utilizing audio informa-
tion significantly outperform the text-based method (i.e., NLP).
Among the models conditioned solely on audio, those that pro-
duce both phrase-level graphemes and TTS labels (i.e., Annt-
v2-pub and Annt-v2-priv) perform better than those that only
generate TTS labels (i.e., Annt-v1-pub and Annt-v1-priv).
Our proposed models (i.e., Annt-v3-pub and Annt-v3-priv),
relying on audio and the corresponding transcript, are more ac-
curate in terms of both phonemic and prosodic labeling. The
4https://open-jtalk.sp.nitech.ac.jp/
5https://github.com/r9y9/pyopenjtalk
6https://github.com/jaywalnut310/vits
Table 2: Objective evaluation results on each metric. CER is
for phonemic labeling while accuracy and F1 are for prosodic
labeling
Model
CER (↓)
Acc. (↑)
F1 (↑)
NLP
3.56%
69.33%
83.69%
Annt-v1-pub
2.41%
81.49%
92.03%
Annt-v2-pub
1.92%
81.79%
92.15%
Annt-v3-pub (ours)
1.59%
81.95%
92.27%
Annt-v4-pub (ours)
1.31%
81.95%
92.25%
Annt-v1-priv
1.13%
86.04%
94.35%
Annt-v2-priv
0.80%
86.40%
94.55%
Annt-v3-priv (ours)
0.63%
87.32%
94.59%
Annt-v4-priv (ours)
0.57%
87.32%
94.58%
Table 3: MOS test results for TTS models trained using TTS
labels from different annotation models with 95% confidence
intervals.
Model
JVS
PRIV
Reference
4.43 ± 0.08
4.68 ± 0.07
Oracle
-
4.27 ± 0.08
NLP
3.63 ± 0.09
3.85 ± 0.10
Annt-v1-priv
3.87 ± 0.08
4.06 ± 0.09
Annt-v2-priv
3.92 ± 0.09
4.11 ± 0.09
Annt-v3-priv (ours)
4.12 ± 0.09
4.23 ± 0.09
Annt-v4-priv (ours)
4.16 ± 0.08
4.29 ± 0.08
models applying proposed decoding strategy (i.e., Annt-v4-
pub and Annt-v4-priv) achieve the best performance of phone-
mic labeling with a slight degradation in pitch labeling, which
is expected as mentioned in Section 2.3. The accuracy of ac-
cent phrase boundary prediction remains unchanged since the
decoding strategy is performed within each accent phrase.
Table 3 presents the results of subjective evaluation. Con-
sistent with the objective evaluation results, all methods lever-
aging audio information significantly outperform the text-based
method. Furthermore, our proposed method not only outper-
forms the baseline methods across all datasets but also achieves
scores slightly higher than manual annotation (i.e., Oracle) on
PRIV. This is probably due to the inconsistent annotation style
across human annotators, which is also reported in [10, 11].
The results demonstrate that the proposed method is capable of
generating high-quality annotations from audio-transcript pairs,
thereby enhancing the performance of Japanese TTS models.
5. Conclusion
In this paper, we propose an annotation model fine-tuned from a
pre-trained ASR model to produce graphemes along with their
phonemic and prosodic labels for given audio-transcript pairs.
To address the phonemic labeling issue associated with Kanji
characters, we adopt a decoding strategy that incorporates dic-
tionary prior knowledge. Experimental results demonstrate that
the proposed annotation method is effective in building high-
quality Japanese TTS models. Since the model can generate
phrase-level graphemes and TTS labels, it holds potential for
constructing polyphone disambiguation datasets and training
text-based accent sandhi estimation models in future work.
2543

6. References
[1] S. E. Eskimez, X. Wang, M. Thakker, C. Li, C.-H. Tsai, Z. Xiao,
H. Yang, Z. Zhu, M. Tang, X. Tan et al., “E2 tts: Embarrass-
ingly easy fully non-autoregressive zero-shot tts,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.18009, 2024.
[2] Z. Du, Q. Chen, S. Zhang, K. Hu, H. Lu, Y. Yang, H. Hu,
S. Zheng, Y. Gu, Z. Ma et al., “Cosyvoice: A scalable multi-
lingual zero-shot text-to-speech synthesizer based on supervised
semantic tokens,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.05407, 2024.
[3] S. Liao, Y. Wang, T. Li, Y. Cheng, R. Zhang, R. Zhou, and
Y. Xing, “Fish-speech: Leveraging large language models for
advanced multilingual text-to-speech synthesis,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2411.01156, 2024.
[4] T. Fujimoto, K. Hashimoto, K. Oura, Y. Nankaku, and K. Tokuda,
“Impacts of input linguistic feature representation on japanese
end-to-end speech synthesis,” in 10th ISCA Speech Synthesis
Workshop. ISCA, Vienna, Austria, 2019.
[5] K. Kurihara, N. Seiyama, and T. Kumano, “Prosodic features con-
trol by symbols as input of sequence-to-sequence acoustic mod-
eling for neural tts,” IEICE Transactions on Information and Sys-
tems, vol. 104, no. 2, pp. 302–311, 2021.
[6] Z. Ying, C. Li, Y. Dong, Q. Kong, Q. Tian, Y. Huo, and Y. Wang,
“A unified front-end framework for english text-to-speech syn-
thesis,” in ICASSP 2024-2024 IEEE International Conference on
Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2024,
pp. 10 181–10 185.
[7] Y. Zhang, L. Deng, and Y. Wang, “Unified mandarin tts front-end
based on distilled bert model,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2012.15404,
2020.
[8] B. Park, R. Yamamoto, and K. Tachibana, “A unified accent esti-
mation method based on multi-task learning for japanese text-to-
speech,” in Interspeech 2022, 2022, pp. 1931–1935.
[9] M. Omachi, Y. Fujita, S. Watanabe, and M. Wiesner, “End-to-end
asr to jointly predict transcriptions and linguistic annotations,” in
Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chap-
ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Lan-
guage Technologies, 2021, pp. 1861–1871.
[10] Y. Shirahata, B. Park, R. Yamamoto, and K. Tachibana, “Audio-
conditioned phonemic and prosodic annotation for building text-
to-speech models from unlabeled speech data,” in Interspeech
2024, 2024, pp. 2795–2799.
[11] Z. Dai, J. Yu, Y. Wang, N. Chen, Y. Bian, G. Li, D. Cai,
and D. Yu, “Automatic prosody annotation with pre-trained text-
speech model,” in Interspeech 2022, 2022, pp. 5513–5517.
[12] X. Yang, “G2pa: G2p with aligned audio for mandarin chinese,”
in Interspeech 2024, 2024, pp. 2800–2804.
[13] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak
supervision,” in International conference on machine learning.
PMLR, 2023, pp. 28 492–28 518.
[14] A. Vaswani, “Attention is all you need,” Advances in Neural In-
formation Processing Systems, 2017.
[15] F.-T. Liao, Y.-C. Chan, Y.-C. Chen, C.-J. Hsu, and D.-s. Shiu,
“Zero-shot domain-sensitive speech recognition with prompt-
conditioning fine-tuning,” in 2023 IEEE Automatic Speech Recog-
nition and Understanding Workshop (ASRU).
IEEE, 2023, pp.
1–8.
[16] X. Wei and S. McGregor, “Prompt tuning for speech recognition
on unknown spoken name entities,” in Interspeech 2024, 2024,
pp. 762–766.
[17] H. Ma, Z. Peng, M. Shao, J. Li, and J. Liu, “Extending whisper
with prompt tuning to target-speaker asr,” in ICASSP 2024 - 2024
IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing (ICASSP), 2024, pp. 12 516–12 520.
[18] Y. Jiang, T. Wang, X. Xie, J. Liu, W. Sun, N. Yan, H. Chen,
L. Wang, X. Liu, and F. Tian, “Perceiver-prompt: Flexible speaker
adaptation in whisper for chinese disordered speech recognition,”
in Interspeech 2024, 2024, pp. 2025–2029.
[19] T. Kudo, K. Yamamoto, and Y. Matsumoto, “Applying conditional
random fields to japanese morphological analysis,” in Proceed-
ings of the 2004 conference on empirical methods in natural lan-
guage processing, 2004, pp. 230–237.
[20] Y. Den, J. Nakamura, T. Ogiso, and H. Ogura, “A proper approach
to japanese morphological analysis: Dictionary, model, and eval-
uation.” in LREC, 2008.
[21] R. Sonobe, S. Takamichi, and H. Saruwatari, “Jsut corpus: free
large-scale japanese speech corpus for end-to-end speech synthe-
sis,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.00354, 2017.
[22] J. Achiam, S. Adler, S. Agarwal, L. Ahmad, I. Akkaya, F. L. Ale-
man, D. Almeida, J. Altenschmidt, S. Altman, S. Anadkat et al.,
“Gpt-4 technical report,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774, 2023.
[23] S. Takamichi, K. Mitsui, Y. Saito, T. Koriyama, N. Tanji, and
H. Saruwatari, “Jvs corpus: free japanese multi-speaker voice cor-
pus,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.06248, 2019.
[24] T. Wolf, L. Debut, V. Sanh, J. Chaumond, C. Delangue,
A.
Moi,
P.
Cistac,
T.
Rault,
R.
Louf,
M.
Funtowicz,
J. Davison, S. Shleifer, P. von Platen, C. Ma, Y. Jernite,
J. Plu, C. Xu, T. L. Scao, S. Gugger, M. Drame, Q. Lhoest,
and A. M. Rush,
“Transformers:
State-of-the-art natural
language processing,” in Proceedings of the 2020 Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing: System
Demonstrations.
Online:
Association
for
Computational
Linguistics, Oct. 2020, pp. 38–45. [Online]. Available: https:
//www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.emnlp-demos.6
[25] J. Kim, J. Kong, and J. Son, “Conditional variational autoencoder
with adversarial learning for end-to-end text-to-speech,” in Inter-
national Conference on Machine Learning.
PMLR, 2021, pp.
5530–5540.
2544

