LombardTokenizer: Disentanglement and Control of V ocal Effort
in a Neural Speech Codec
Maxime Jacquelin1,2, Ma¨eva Garnier1, Laurent Girin1, R´emy Vincent2, Olivier Perrotin1
1Univ. Grenoble Alpes, CNRS, Grenoble INP, GIPSA-lab, France
2V ogo, France
maxime.jacquelin@gipsa-lab.grenoble-inp.fr, maeva.garnier@gipsa-lab.grenoble-inp.fr,
laurent.girin@gipsa-lab.grenoble-inp.fr, r.vincent@vogo-group.com,
olivier.perrotin@gipsa-lab.grenoble-inp.fr
Abstract
Disentangling distinct types of information in speech represen-
tations is crucial for improving speech synthesis and voice con-
version systems. In this work, we introduce LombardTokenizer,
a neural speech codec able to separate features related to vo-
cal effort from other acoustic (and semantic) information. This
model is built on SpeechTokenizer, a model proposed in the lit-
erature based on multi-stage quantisation, which focused on iso-
lating semantic content in its first quantisation layer. We show
that the level of vocal effort can be effectively captured in the
second quantisation layer by conditioning the quantisation layer
with neural encoders trained to represent vocal effort. Exper-
imental results demonstrate that the proposed method signif-
icantly outperforms existing methods in speech conversion be-
tween neutral and Lombard speech, while maintaining excellent
speech synthesis quality, offering improved control over vocal
effort and naturalness of synthesised speech.
Index Terms: neural speech codec, lombard speech, vocal ef-
fort encoding, latent space regularisation, speech tokenization
1. Introduction
Neural audio codecs have revolutionised speech processing by
enabling efficient compression and high quality audio synthesis.
At the core of state-of-the-art neural codecs, such as Sound-
Stream [1] and EnCodec [2] is Residual Vector Quantisation
(RVQ) [3], a cascaded quantisation architecture that hierarchi-
cally represents complex speech and audio information, from
coarse global features to fine-grained acoustic details. This hi-
erarchical structure has proven effective for both speech manip-
ulation [4] and low-bitrate coding [5], paving the way for more
advanced applications in speech synthesis and transformation.
Building on the success of RVQ-based neural codecs,
SpeechTokenizer [6] introduced a novel approach to disentan-
gling information in speech signals. The model’s first RVQ
layer is explicitly guided by the output of a self-supervised
learning (SSL) speech model, namely HuBERT [7], ensuring
that it captures what the authors define as semantic representa-
tions. This effectively isolated phonetic information from other
source of acoustic variability encoded in the subsequent RVQ
layers, allowing for separate modifications to phonetic content
and acoustic representations in voice conversion applications.
However, disentangling different dimensions of acoustic vari-
ations remains an open challenge, particularly when analysing
speech produced at varying levels of intensity and vocal effort.
Such variations in vocal effort can be observed in challenging
situations of communication, such as speaking over a distance,
in noisy environments (a phenomenon known as the ‘Lombard
effect’ [8]) or when addressing to a hearing-impaired individ-
ual. In all cases, increased vocal effort is typically accompanied
by global acoustic modifications such as an elevated fundamen-
tal frequency (f0), a flattened spectral slope and an increased
frequency of the vowel’s first formant (F1) [9, 10], but also
by segment-specific modifications [11, 12, 13]. Additionally,
a form of hyper-articulation can be observed in some of these
speech styles, such as Lombard speech (i.e., produced in noise),
with enhanced phonemic contrasts, prosodic cues and voice
modulations [14, 15] contributing to their increased speech in-
telligibility under adverse conditions [16].
Traditional approaches to neutral-to-Lombard speech con-
version often rely on explicit manipulation of acoustic features,
such as pitch contours or energy levels [17, 18, 19, 20]. More
recent methods use deep neural networks to learn a mapping
between neutral and Lombard speech, either in a supervised or
unsupervised manner [21, 22, 23, 24]. In parallel, research on
voice conversion has also explored techniques for disentangling
speaker identity and speaking style from linguistic content.
Models like FreeVC [25] combine the SSL model WavLM [26]
with d-vector speaker embeddings [27] to achieve high qual-
ity voice conversion. Other works, such as [28] integrate Hu-
BERT with a pitch encoder and a speaker encoder to model se-
mantic content, prosodic information, and speaker characteris-
tics separately. These approaches demonstrate the effectiveness
of SSL models in generating semantic representations and dis-
entangling them from prosodic and speaker features in neutral
speech. However, they do not explicitly target the disentangle-
ment of specific prosodic and acoustic features associated with
the Lombard effect.
This paper introduces LombardTokenizer, a neural speech
codec designed to encode speech modifications induced by vari-
ations in vocal effort separately from other acoustic and seman-
tic information. This model is built on SpeechTokenizer and its
RVQ structure. In addition to isolating the semantic content in
the first RVQ layer, we demonstrate that Lombard speech trans-
formations can be effectively captured in the second RVQ layer
by leveraging deep neural encoders trained to represent vocal
effort. Notably, we train the model on neutral speech, fine-tune
it on loud speech and evaluate it on loud and Lombard speech
following a zero-shot approach to assess its ability to generalise
to unseen vocal effort conditions. A second contribution of this
paper is to replace HuBERT with the multilingual SSL model
mHuBERT [29] in the first RVQ layer to improve the semantic
representation and enable zero-shot generalisation across lan-
guages. The performance of LombardTokenizer was assessed
both objectively and subjectively from experiments conducted
on a loud speech dataset (A VID [30]) as well as a new Lom-
bard speech dataset (FLombard [31]) specifically recorded for
this study, which can therefore be considered as the third con-
tribution of this paper.
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
5778 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1639
Semantic
Distillation
Encoder
Decoder
Discriminator
VQ1
VQ2
VQ8
mHuBERT
Lombard
Encoder
-
Quantizer
+
-
+
-
Lombard
Distillation
Figure 1: Schema of the proposed LombardTokenizer model.
2. Method
In this section, we first present the architecture of LombardTok-
enizer. We then describe the two datasets with variation of vocal
effort. Finally, we present the training procedure designed to
disentangle vocal effort and semantic information in our model.
2.1. Model Architecture
The proposed LombardTokenizer model is based on the archi-
tecture of SpeechTokenizer, as depicted in Fig. 1. It uses the
convolutional-based (CNN) encoder-decoder network, with a
two-layer BiLSTM at the end of the encoder and front-end of
the decoder convolution blocks. The output of the encoder is
quantised through eight RVQ layers. In SpeechTokenizer, the
first RVQ layer is forced to learn semantic-oriented codebooks
during training via distillation by HuBERT.
Our model introduces two key extensions that are detailed
in Sec. 2.3: (i) Lombard-specific encoders plugged on the sec-
ond RVQ layer to force the latter to learn codebooks encoding
vocal effort features, and (ii) the replacement of HuBERT with
the multilingual mHuBERT model [29] to generalise the dis-
entanglement of semantic information in the first RVQ layer to
several languages.
2.2. Speech Datasets
To extract vocal effort relevant information, we use the A VID
dataset [30]. This dataset includes recordings of 50 non-
necessarily native English speakers (25 males and 25 females)
exhibiting controlled changes in four different intensity cate-
gories (soft, normal, loud, very loud). To elicit each cate-
gory, the speakers were instructed with textual guidelines but
were not forced to produce speech in a predefined intensity
level. In this work, we used the speech signals produce during
the sentence reading task, totalling 8 h of speech, with 2 h for
each intensity condition and approximately 10 min per speaker.
While the A VID dataset exhibits a high dynamic intensity range
(40 dB), it does not explicitly capture natural Lombard speech
as it occurs in real noisy environments.
To address this limitation, we introduce FLombard [31], a
dataset where speakers actively adapt their speech in response
to background noise, ensuring a more authentic representation
of Lombard speech characteristics. This newly collected dataset
features 40 French speakers (20 male and 20 female) producing
Lombard speech under four different levels of white noise heard
via headphones (0, 65, 75, 85 dB SPL). The recordings were
conducted in a controlled listening room to ensure high quality
audio capture. In total, the dataset contains approximately 8 h
of speech, with 2 h for each noise condition and an average of
13 min per speaker.
2.3. Training Strategy
Lombard Speech Encoding: To capture vocal effort features,
we first introduce two different Lombard speech encoders, E1
and E2, and train them on the A VID dataset. As for E1, we
implemented a d-vector model from [32], pre-trained on Lib-
riSpeech and V oxCeleb [33]. This model takes as input a 40-
band mel-spectrogram and outputs a speaker embedding vector
of size 256. The model is optimised with the generalised end-
to-end loss function [27]. To make the model more suitable
for encoding vocal effort variation, we concatenate the mean
intensity of the speech signal with the mel-spectrogram input
and apply a 41-to-40 fully-connected (FC) layer during the fine-
tuning on A VID. The second model,E2, is our own. It consists
of three CNN layers, followed by an LSTM layer and two FC
layers. It was trained on A VID to predict the intensity of a nor-
malised input waveform (whose RMS is 1). The intensity to
predict was made speaker-independent: we applied a Min-Max
normalisation for each speaker in the A VID dataset to scale the
mean intensity of all signals between 0 and 1. After training,
instead of using the final output of E2, we extract the interme-
diate representation after the first FC, with a dimensionality of
32, to capture vocal effort features.
Semantic and Lombard Distillation: To disentangle se-
mantic and vocal effort from other acoustic features in Lom-
bardTokenizer, we take advantage of the hierarchical structure
of the RVQ module. We use the SSL model mHuBERT and
one of our two Lombard speech encoders to guide the first and
the second RVQ layers, respectively, during LombardTokenizer
training, as shown in Fig. 1. The mHuBERT, E1, and E2 rep-
resentations have a dimensionality of 768, 256 and 32, respec-
tively. To match those dimensions with the quantised output of
the first and second RVQ layer (each of size 1024), we apply a
1024-to-D FC layer to the quantised features before applying
the distillation loss, following the approach described in [6]:
Ldistill =− 1
D
DX
d=1
logσ

cos

AQ(:,d)
. , X(:,d)

, (1)
where Q. denotes the quantised output of the first or second
RVQ layer, X denotes the corresponding semantic or Lom-
bard speech representation, A is the projection matrix, and D
is the dimension of the representation ( 768, 256, or 32). The
superscript (:,d ) denotes a vector comprising values from all
time steps at dimension d, while cos(·) is the cosine similar-
ity and σ(·) denotes the sigmoid activation. Those two losses
comes in addition to the reconstruction, discriminative and RVQ
commitment losses, necessary to train SpeechTokenizer [6].
Since we have two possible Lombard speech encoders to
plug, E1 and E2, this gives us two versions of LombardTok-
enizer, that we call LT1 and LT2, respectively. In both versions,
the representation distillation strategy ensures that the second
RVQ layer learns to encode features related to vocal effort,
while the first layer remains focused on semantic information.
Fine-tuning on V ocal Effort: We first pre-trained our
LombardTokenizer models with semantic and Lombard distilla-
tions on a large-scale, multi-speaker dataset, using LibriSpeech
dataset [34]. Then, we further fine-tuned the model on the A VID
dataset. Fine-tuning on data that encompass vocal effort varia-
tion is a crucial step in our approach, as it allows the model
to explicitly learn and encode the acoustic characteristics asso-
ciated with different levels of vocal effort. Unlike pre-trained
speech tokenizers that primarily capture general speech fea-
tures, fine-tuning on such datasets enables the codebook of the
5779
second RVQ layer to effectively encode variations in intensity,
spectral tilt, and prosodic cues linked to vocal effort.
2.4. Experiments
Details of the models implementations and examples of synthe-
sised speech are available in our demo website.1
Synthesis quality: A first step was to compare the quality
and intelligibility of speech synthesised by LombardTokenizer
against two strong baselines: EnCodec [2], a state-of-the-art
neural audio codec, and SpeechTokenizer [6], the backbone of
our method. Those four models were trained on LibriSpeech
360 h ‘clean’ training subset and fine-tuned on 6 h from 40
speakers of A VID. The sampling rate of the speech signals was
16 kHz. For training and fine-tuning, we used 2 A100 GPUs,
with a learning rate of 1e−4, for 20 epochs and a batch size
of 32 per GPU. Evaluation of speech synthesis was performed
on unseen parts of LibriSpeech and A VID, with 2 h for 2620
sentences and 1.50 h for 2200 sentences, respectively, as well
as on FLombard, with 1.30 h for 1920 sentences. Two metrics,
PESQ [35] and STOI [36], were used to evaluate objectively the
quality and intelligibility of the speech synthesized.
Modeling and conversion of vocal effort: In a second
step, we evaluated the ability of LombardTokenizer to capture
speech transformations related to vocal effort and control this
dimension in re-synthesis. An evaluation combining both ob-
jective metrics and perceptual listening tests was conducted on
both A VID and FLombard datasets to evaluate performance un-
der in-domain and zero-shot conditions, respectively. The eval-
uation compares the two variants of LombardTokenizer (LT 1
and LT2) against FreeVC [25], a state-of-the-art voice conver-
sion model that also combines an SSL model (WavLM [26])
and a speaker embedding. Two variations of FreeVC were con-
sidered: one using the standard speaker encoder from [32] and
one modified with the Lombard speech encoder E1, referred to
as FVCspk and FVClmb, respectively. Both models were trained
and fine-tuned with a procedure similar to LombardTokenizer.
V ocal effort conversion was performed by switching the vocal
effort encoding of a source and a target signals. For Lombard-
Tokenizer, the output of the second RVQ layer of an encoded
source signal was replaced by the output of the second RVQ
layer of an encoded target signal, while keeping the other layers
unchanged. For FreeVC, the embedding (speaker or Lombard)
of the encoded source signal was replaced by the embedding of
an encoded target signal, while keeping the output from WavLM
unchanged. V ocal effort adaptation across speakers is flexibly
achieved by both methods, by selecting a target representation
from either the same speaker (intra-speaker conversion) or a dif-
ferent speaker (inter-speaker conversion).
An objective evaluation of these four conversion methods
was conduced on the following data: for A VID and FLombard
dataset, 24 utterances were selected, each produced by 8 speak-
ers (4 males and 4 females) at four levels of vocal effort. Each
sentence was then converted to the three other levels of vocal
effort with our four models, given either a target signal with
same speaker and same utterance (intra-speaker conversion), or
two target signals with two different speakers and same utter-
ance (inter-speaker conversion). This resulted in 27 648 sen-
tences to evaluate for each dataset. Two metrics, the Word Error
Rate (WER) and Equal Error Rate (EER), were used to quantify
content preservation and speaker similarity, respectively. Ad-
ditionally, the Jensen-Shannon divergence (JS), a symmetrised
1https://github.com/lombardtokenizer/
lombardtokenizer.github.io
Table 1: PESQ and STOI scores for EnCodec (EC), Speech-
Tokenizer (ST) and LombardTokenizer (LT) reported for Lib-
riSpeech (LB), AVID and FLombard (FL) test sets. We report
mean scores and 95% confidence intervals.
Dataset Method PESQ [−0.5; 4.5]↑ STOI [0; 1]↑
EC 3.32± 0.03 0.94± 0.01
LB ST 3.01± 0.05 0.93± 0.02
LT 3.07± 0.04 0.93± 0.02
EC 3.25± 0.07 0.92± 0.03
A VID ST 2.88± 0.08 0.91± 0.04
LT 3.01± 0.06 0.91± 0.05
EC 2.94± 0.11 0.90± 0.06
FL ST 2.54± 0.11 0.88± 0.07
LT 2.81± 0.07 0.89± 0.05
version of the Kullback-Leibler divergence, was computed on
frame-wise fundamental frequency and spectral slope distribu-
tions (JS-F0 and JS-Slope) to evaluate acoustic consistency be-
tween the transformed and target signals.
V ocal effort modification was also assessed through a lis-
tening test with comparative ratings. The latter consisted in rat-
ing the perceived vocal effort on a scale from 0 (soft) to 100
(very loud) of 8 signals: the four natural rendition of an utter-
ance with the four levels of vocal effort, and the conversion of
vocal effort of the utterance from a source to a target level with
the four models, at non-adjacent levels of vocal effort (i.e., be-
tween soft and loud levels, or between normal and very loud
levels). A single{source, target} pair was selected for each ut-
terance, and combinations were randomly distributed across ut-
terances. For each dataset, the same 24 utterances were rated
with four speakers and both the intra- and one inter-speaker
conversion, for a total of 192 comparative ratings. 40 English
speakers for A VID and 40 French speakers for FLombard, all
native, were recruited via the Prolific platform 2 and performed
24 comparative ratings each, following a Latin Square design.
Statistical significance between score distributions across mod-
els and vocal effort levels was assessed using Dunn’s test.
3. Results
3.1. Synthesis quality
Table 1 presents the comparison of synthesis quality and intelli-
gibility – as evaluated through the PESQ and STOI scores – be-
tween our method: LombardTokenizer (LT), and two baselines:
EnCodec (EC) and SpeechTokenizer (ST). As both Lombard-
Tokenizer variants present no significant difference in speech
synthesis performance, we only report the results for LT 1. The
results show that for neutral speech – as represented in the Lib-
riSpeech dataset (LB) –, LombardTokenizer and SpeechTok-
enizer achieve similar levels of synthesis quality and intelligi-
bility, which reflects their shared architecture and strategy of
semantic regularisation. For speech produced with increased
vocal effort – as represented in A VID and FLombard (FL)
datasets –, LombardTokenizer outperforms SpeechTokenizer,
with the greatest performance gap observed for the FLombard
dataset, corresponding to a zero-shot generalisation scenario.
This supports the interest of using multilingual SSL and Lom-
bard speech encoder to guide the RVQ layers. EnCodec con-
sistently achieves the highest scores of synthesis quality and in-
telligibility, certainly because it does not constrain its quantised
layers to capture specific types of information. Interestingly,
2https://www.prolific.com
5780
Soft Normal Loud Very Loud
0
20
40
60
80
100 AVID - Intra
Soft Normal Loud Very Loud
AVID - Inter
Soft Normal Loud Very Loud
FLombard - Intra
Soft Normal Loud Very Loud
FLombard - Inter
Vocal Effort Score
GT
FVCspk
FVClmb
LT1
LT2
Figure 2: Perceptual evaluations of vocal effort conversion with the two variants of LombardTokenizer and FreeVC on the AVID and
FLombard test sets (intra- and inter-speaker conditions).
this advantage becomes less pronounced with the FLombard
dataset, which includes expressive speech and unseen data con-
ditions. In these cases, LombardTokenizer demonstrates com-
petitive performance due to its targeted regularisation strategies.
3.2. Modeling and conversion of vocal effort
Objective evaluation:
As shown in Table 2, both variants of LombardTokenizer
outperform the FreeVC models across all objective metrics on
both datasets. For the A VID dataset, LT 1 achieves the low-
est WER (10.97 %) and EER (6.67 %), indicating strong per-
formance in maintaining both intelligibility and speaker iden-
tity. Meanwhile, LT 2 slightly outperforms LT1 in terms of JS-
F0 (0.03) and JS-Slope ( 0.07), reflecting its superior ability to
capture the spectral modifications that accompany variations in
vocal effort. The performance gap becomes more pronounced
for the FLombard dataset. Here, both LombardTokenizer vari-
ants maintain their advantage, with LT 2 achieving the lowest
WER (15.77 %), which demonstrates its robustness in unfamil-
iar conditions. While EER scores increase slightly compared
to A VID, reflecting the added challenge of vocal effort conver-
sion on unseen conditions, LT 1 and LT2 still outperform both
FreeVC models. This suggests that they retain speaker charac-
teristics more effectively, even under zero-shot conditions.
Perceptual evaluation:
The results from the perceptual evaluation, displayed in
Fig. 2, confirm that the listeners were able to perceive and dis-
tinguish different levels of vocal effort. Indeed, for the untrans-
formed samples of both datasets (Ground Truth - GT), the per-
ceived level of vocal effort shows significantly distinct distribu-
tions for each category of produced vocal intensity (p< 0.01).
This distinctiveness is slightly less pronounced in FLombard
compared to A VID, which may stem from the greater vocal in-
tensity range covered in A VID (spans a 40 dB range between
soft and very loud speech) compared to FLombard (only 20 dB).
Conversely, regardless of the dataset or speaker configu-
rations (intra- and inter-speaker), the perceived effort of sam-
ples transformed with FreeVC does not exhibit significant dif-
ferences across the four categories of produced vocal intensity.
This suggests that FreeVC does not manage to generate dis-
tinct variations in vocal effort. While such result was some-
what expected for the variant using the standard speaker en-
coder, it is more surprising for the FreeVC model that relies
on the Lombard encoder, indicating its poor ability to lever-
age Lombard-specific information for expressive conversion. In
contrast, both LombardTokenizer variants appear to accurately
convert vocal effort, showing similar distributions of perceived
effort between the transformed samples (after conversion) and
Table 2: Objective evaluations of vocal effort conversion with
the two variants LombardTokenizer and FreeVC on AVID and
FLombard. We report WER, EER, JS-F0 and JS-Slope.
Dataset Method WER (%)↓ EER (%)↓ JS-F0↓ JS-Slope↓
GT 7.83 4 .79 − −
FVCspk 20.35 16 .67 0 .24 0 .34
A VID FVClmb 17.50 25 .00 0 .22 0 .33
LT1 10.97 6 .67 0.04 0 .08
LT2 12.73 7 .83 0.03 0 .07
GT 11.46 7 .34 − −
FVCspk 24.04 22 .50 0 .16 0 .30
FL FVClmb 32.63 33 .13 0 .14 0 .28
LT1 17.74 16.88 0.05 0 .06
LT2 15.77 18.29 0.04 0 .04
the untransformed ones (corresponding to the conversion tar-
get, GT), across all four categories of vocal intensity. A slight
performance drop is observed in inter-speaker conversion (ev-
idenced by wider distributions), compared to the intra-speaker
conversion. However, this difference remains non-significant,
indicating that LombardTokenizer maintains robust conversion
quality across different speakers.
The results of both objective and perceptual evaluations
confirm the superiority of our approach. Indeed, while both LT1
and FVClmb utilise the same Lombard encoder, only our model
achieves effective vocal effort conversion. Moreover, the sim-
ilar performances observed between the two variants, LT 1 and
LT2, demonstrate the strong ability of the LombardTokenizer
method to generalise to various vocal effort representations.
4. Conclusion
This paper introduced LombardTokenizer, a novel framework
that extends the concept of RVQ regularisation by introducing
targeted regularisation in the second RVQ layer using Lombard
speech encoders, while leveraging the multilingual mHuBERT
for semantic guidance in the first RVQ layer. Two variants of
LombardTokenizer were explored: one based on ad-vector en-
coder and another using an intensity predictor. Both objec-
tive and perceptual evaluations demonstrated that LombardTok-
enizer outperforms existing models in both speech synthesis and
conversion tasks. Notably, LombardTokenizer achieved strong
performance regardless of the vocal effort representation and
demonstrated effective zero-shot generalisation. More gener-
ally, this work provides new insight to the problem of disen-
tangling different dimensions of speech variation (such as vocal
effort, expressivity, speech clarity) in neural speech codecs.
5781
5. References
[1] N. Zeghidour, A. Luebs, A. Omran, J. Skoglund, and
M. Tagliasacchi, “Soundstream: An end-to-end neural audio
codec,” IEEE/ACM Trans. on Audio, Speech, and Language Pro-
cessing (TASLP), vol. 30, pp. 495–507, 2022.
[2] A. D ´efossez, J. Copet, G. Synnaeve, and Y . Adi, “High fidelity
neural audio compression,”Trans. on Machine Learning Research
(TMLR), 2023.
[3] A. Vasuki and P. Vanathi, “A review of vector quantization tech-
niques,” IEEE Potentials, vol. 25, no. 4, pp. 39–47, 2006.
[4] J. Zeqian, W. Yuancheng, S. Kai, and T. Xu, “Naturalspeech 3:
Zero-shot speech synthesis with factorized codec and diffusion
models,” in Int. Conf. on Machine Learning, 2024.
[5] Y . Zheng, W. Tu, L. Xiao, and X. Xu, “Srcodec: Split-residual
vector quantization for neural speech codec,” in IEEE Int. Conf.
on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2024, pp.
451–455.
[6] X. Zhang, D. Zhang, S. Li, Y . Zhou, and X. Qiu, “Speechtok-
enizer: Unified speech tokenizer for speech language models,” in
Int. Conf. on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2024.
[7] W.-N. Hsu, B. Bolte, Y .-H. H. Tsai, K. Lakhotia, R. Salakhutdi-
nov, and A. Mohamed, “Hubert: Self-supervised speech represen-
tation learning by masked prediction of hidden units,”IEEE/ACM
Trans. on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing (TASLP) ,
vol. 29, pp. 3451–3460, 2021.
[8] E. Lombard, “Le signe de l’ ´elevation de la voix,” Annu. maladies
oreille larynx nez pharynx, vol. 27, pp. 101–119, 1911.
[9] R. Schulman, “Articulatory dynamics of loud and normal speech,”
J. Acoust. Soc. Am., vol. 85, no. 1, pp. 295–312, 1989.
[10] D. Rostolland, “Acoustic features of shouted voice,” Acta Acus-
tica united with Acustica, vol. 50, no. 2, pp. 118–125, 1982.
[11] ——, “Phonetic structure of shouted voice,” Acta Acustica united
with Acustica, vol. 51, no. 2, pp. 80–89, 1982.
[12] W. V . Summers, D. B. Pisoni, R. H. Bernacki, R. I. Pedlow, and
M. A. Stokes, “Effects of noise on speech production: Acoustic
and perceptual analyses,” J. Acoust. Soc. Am. , vol. 84, no. 3, pp.
917–928, 1988.
[13] A. Castellanos, J.-M. Bened ´ı, and F. Casacuberta, “An analysis
of general acoustic-phonetic features for spanish speech produced
with the lombard effect,” Speech Comm., vol. 20, no. 1-2, pp. 23–
35, 1996.
[14] M. Garnier, N. Henrich, and D. Dubois, “Influence of sound im-
mersion and communicative interaction on the lombard effect,”J.
of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research , vol. 53, pp. 588–
608, 2010.
[15] M. Garnier, L. M ´enard, and B. Alexandre, “Hyper-articulation in
lombard speech: An active communicative strategy to enhance
visible speech cues?” J. Acoust. Soc. Am. , vol. 144, no. 2, pp.
1059–1074, 2018.
[16] M. D. Skowronski and J. G. Harris, “Applied principles of clear
and lombard speech for automated intelligibility enhancement in
noisy environments,” Speech Comm., vol. 48, no. 5, pp. 549–558,
2006.
[17] R. Patel, M. Everett, and E. Sadikov, “Loudmouth: Modifying
text-to-speech synthesis in noise,” in Proc. of Int. ACM SIGAC-
CESS Conf. on Computers and Accessibility, 2006, pp. 227–228.
[18] T. Toda, A. W. Black, and K. Tokuda, “V oice conversion based
on maximum-likelihood estimation of spectral parameter trajec-
tory,” IEEE Trans. on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing
(TASLP), vol. 15, no. 8, pp. 2222–2235, 2007.
[19] O. Perrotin and C. d’Alessandro, “V ocal effort modification in
singing synthesis,” in Proc. of Interspeech, 2016, pp. 1235–1239.
[20] E. Jokinen, U. Remes, and P. Alku, “Intelligibility enhancement
of telephone speech using gaussian process regression for normal-
to-lombard spectral tilt conversion,” IEEE/ACM Trans. on Audio,
Speech, and Language Processing (TASLP) , vol. 25, no. 10, pp.
1985–1996, 2017.
[21] S. Seshadri, L. Juvela, J. Yamagishi, O. R ¨as¨anen, and P. Alku,
“Cycle-consistent adversarial networks for non-parallel vocal ef-
fort based speaking style conversion,” in IEEE Int. Conf. on
Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) , 2019, pp.
6835–6839.
[22] G. Li, R. Hu, S. Ke, R. Zhang, X. Wang, and L. Gao, “Speech
intelligibility enhancement using non-parallel speaking style con-
version with stargan and dynamic range compression,” in IEEE
Int. Conf. on Multimedia and Expo (ICME), 2020, pp. 1–6.
[23] G. Li, X. Wang, R. Hu, H. Zhang, and S. Ke, “Intelligibil-
ity enhancement via normal-to-lombard speech conversion with
long short-term memory network and bayesian gaussian mixture
model,” IEEE Trans. on Multimedia (TMM) , vol. 23, pp. 3035–
3047, 2021.
[24] Q. Hu, T. Bleisch, P. Petkov, T. Raitio, E. Marchi, and V . Laksh-
minarasimhan, “Whispered and lombard neural speech synthesis,”
in IEEE Spoken Language Technology Workshop (SLT), 2021, pp.
454–461.
[25] J. Li, W. Tu, and L. Xiao, “Freevc: Towards high-quality text-
free one-shot voice conversion,” in IEEE Int. Conf. on Acoustics,
Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2023, pp. 1–5.
[26] S. Chen, C. Wang, Z. Chen, Y . Wu, S. Liu, Z. Chen, J. Li,
N. Kanda, T. Yoshioka, X. Xiaoet al., “Wavlm: Large-scale self-
supervised pre-training for full stack speech processing,” IEEE J.
of Selected Topics in Signal Processing, vol. 16, no. 6, pp. 1505–
1518, 2022.
[27] L. Wan, Q. Wang, A. Papir, and I. L. Moreno, “Generalized end-
to-end loss for speaker verification,” inIEEE Int. Conf. on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) , 2018, pp. 4879–
4883.
[28] A. Polyak, Y . Adi, J. Copet, E. Kharitonov, K. Lakhotia, W.-N.
Hsu, A. Mohamed, and E. Dupoux, “Speech resynthesis from dis-
crete disentangled self-supervised representations,” inProc. of In-
terspeech, 2021.
[29] M. Z. Boito, V . Iyer, N. Lagos, L. Besacier, and I. Calapode-
scu, “mhubert-147: A compact multilingual hubert model,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2406.06371, 2024.
[30] P. Alku, M. Kodali, L. Laaksonen, and S. R. Kadiri, “Avid: A
speech database for machine learning studies on vocal intensity,”
Speech Comm., vol. 157, p. 103039, 2024.
[31] M. Jacquelin, M. Garnier, L. Girin, R. Vincent, and O. Perrotin,
“The French Lombard Dataset,” May 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15533059
[32] S. Liu, Y . Cao, D. Wang, X. Wu, X. Liu, and H. Meng,
“Any-to-many voice conversion with location-relative sequence-
to-sequence modeling,” IEEE/ACM Trans. on Audio, Speech, and
Language Processing (TASLP), vol. 29, pp. 1717–1728, 2021.
[33] A. Nagrani, J. S. Chung, and A. Zisserman, “V oxceleb: a large-
scale speaker identification dataset,” Telephony, vol. 3, pp. 33–
039, 2017.
[34] V . Panayotov, G. Chen, D. Povey, and S. Khudanpur, “Lib-
rispeech: an asr corpus based on public domain audio books,”
in IEEE Int. Conf. on acoustics, speech and signal processing
(ICASSP), 2015, pp. 5206–5210.
[35] A. W. Rix, J. G. Beerends, M. P. Hollier, and A. P. Hekstra, “Per-
ceptual evaluation of speech quality (PESQ)-a new method for
speech quality assessment of telephone networks and codecs,”
in IEEE Int. Conf. on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP), vol. 2, 2001, pp. 749–752.
[36] C. H. Taal, R. C. Hendriks, R. Heusdens, and J. Jensen, “A short-
time objective intelligibility measure for time-frequency weighted
noisy speech,” inIEEE Int. Conf. on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing (ICASSP), 2010, pp. 4214–4217.
5782
