warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
FaiST: A Benchmark Dataset for Fairness in Speech Technology
Maliha Jahan1, Yinglun Sun2, Priyam Mazumdar2, Zsuzsanna Fagyal2, Thomas Thebaud1, Jesus
Villalba1, Mark Hasegawa-Johnson2, Najim Dehak1, Laureano Moro-Velazquez1
1Center for Language and Speech Processing, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA
2University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Champaign, IL, USA
mjahan2@jhu.edu, yinglun2@illinois.edu, priyamm2@illinois.edu
Abstract
Fairness in speech processing systems is a critical chal-
lenge, especially regarding performance disparities based on
speakers’ backgrounds. To help combat this problem, we are
introducing FaiST (Fairness in Speech Technology), a novel
speech dataset from American English speakers of various
racial, ethnic, and national origin groups. The goal is to evaluate
and mitigate possible biases across speech technologies using
conversational speech from podcasts and interviews online. In
FaiST’s current version, speakers self-identified as Asian Amer-
ican and African American, and future iterations will include
other groups. White American speakers’ speech was extracted
from VoxCeleb, and their demographic labels were obtained on-
line. In addition to identifiers of race, ethnicity, and national
origins, FaiST is also marked for the exact instances in the con-
versation where self-identifications occurred. We experimented
with FaiST and found racial bias in eighteen Automatic Speech
Recognition systems.
Index Terms: speech, dataset, fairness, bias, speaker demo-
graphics, automatic speech recognition
1. Introduction
Speech processing systems have become integral to various
applications, from virtual assistants to transcription services.
However, their performance discrepancy across various speaker
demographic groups is a continued topic of interest. Several re-
cent works have demonstrated such performance biases. [1] and
[2] have pointed out that some Automatic Speech Recognition
(ASR) systems exhibited bias against male speakers. However,
studies such as [3] and [4] showed ASR biases against female
speakers. Racial and accent biases were also revealed in re-
search works such as [5], [6], and [4] These performance dis-
crepancies can largely be attributed to biases in training data.
To help address this issue, we introduce a novel speech dataset
called FaiST (Fairness in Speech Technology). The purpose is
to offer speech data from speakers belonging to various racial
and ethnic groups to evaluate and mitigate bias.
FaiST dataset, which was collected from the internet, pro-
vides human-verified transcripts along with three demographic
labels- race, ethnicity, and national origin. These labels are as-
signed based on speakers either self-identifying or being identi-
fied by others, with their implicit or explicit consent, as belong-
ing to those groups. Also, the exact instances in the conversa-
tions where these identifications occur are marked in the dataset.
In its current version, the dataset mostly contains speakers from
Asian American and African American groups, but we are al-
ready expanding the dataset to include more groups like Latin
American speakers.
FaiST also includes a White American
group, for which we used the VoxCeleb [7] dataset along with
information from Wikipedia to determine the celebrities’ races.
We included selected speakers from VoxCeleb into FaiST, and
to differentiate the annotation processes, we designate this sub-
set as ’FaiST-V’ (FaiST-VoxCeleb), while referring to the rest
of the dataset as ’FaiST-EV’ (FaiST-Excluding VoxCeleb). The
FaiST-EV partition and the metadata necessary to create FaiST-
V from VoxCeleb are publicly available.1
Several existing datasets have been used to evaluate the bi-
ases of speech technologies. Table 1 shows a comparison of
multiple such datasets to FaiST. Mozilla’s Common Voice [8]
has self-reported metadata, but it is not a conversational dataset,
nor does it have race and national origin labels. Meta’s Casual
Conversations [9] is a conversational dataset, but it does not
have race and national origin labels. Meta’s Fair-Speech [10]
has self-reported race labels but does not have national origin
labels, and it is not a conversational dataset. In CORAAL, the
race labels are not self-reported and it does not feature speak-
ers from a diverse group, mostly focusing on African American
speakers. FaiST provides rich, natural conversational speech
from a diverse group of speakers, and the FaiST-EV contains
self-identified race and national origin labels while also mark-
ing the exact identification instances in the conversation.
In this paper, we describe the FaiST dataset and its creation
process, from audio collection to annotation. We follow the
dataset creation process mentioned in our previous work [11]
to create FaiST-EV. Finally, we perform some experiments with
eighteen variants of seven ASR systems to uncover any per-
formance biases these ASRs may have. We use the Poisson
regression model-based approach of ASR fairness evaluation
described in [12]. This method considers speaker variability
and confounding effects when evaluating fairness. We use the
drop-in-deviance test along with the Poisson regression model
to determine the fairness of a model for a particular attribute of
a dataset. Our experiments revealed that all eighteen ASRs had
racial biases, with the ’white’ category performing best twelve
out of twenty times.
2. Dataset description
The FaiST dataset is an English speech corpus containing nat-
ural conversational speech from speakers from various racial
and ethnic groups in the U. S. The speakers either self-identify
or are identified by others as belonging to those demographic
groups. The aim is to enable the scientific community to eval-
uate the fairness of speech and language technologies or train
and develop more equitable and effective speech technologies.
Moreover, linguistic researchers can use the dataset to analyze
how different groups self-identify through language, as it cap-
tures naturalistic speech from diverse populations. FaiST can
1https://github.com/Maliha-Jahan/FaiST
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
1343
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1102

also be used to train Named Entity Recognition (NER) models
to find self-identification instances. It is important that speakers
self-identify because it ensures that the labels of race, ethnicity,
or national origin accurately reflect their personal experience
and identity, rather than being imposed or assumed by external
sources. It allows for a more authentic and respectful represen-
tation of individuals, which is crucial for fairness in datasets and
systems that may be influenced by these labels.
2.1. Labels
The dataset has race, ethnicity, and national origin labels, as
well as spans and types of identification. We followed the U.S.
Census Bureau under the U.S. Office of Management and Bud-
get (OMB) to categorize race, ethnicity, and national origin.
The categories used in the dataset are described below.
• Race. Race attribute has seven categories: White; Black or
African American; Asian; American Indian or Alaska Native;
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander; Multiracial; and
’Unknown’ for undetermined cases.
• Ethnicity. Ethnicity attribute has three classes: Hispanic or
Latinx, Non-Hispanic or Non-Latinx, and ‘Unknown’ for un-
determined cases.
• National Origin Group. National origin groups were de-
fined as groups of people sharing a common language, cul-
ture, ancestry, race, and/or other social characteristics [13].
Some examples are Korean, Vietnamese, Japanese, etc.
• Type of identification. “Self-identification” if the speaker
identified themselves or “Other-person, in-interaction identi-
fication” if someone else present in the interaction identified
the speaker.
• Span. The exact part of a conversation where a speaker was
identified by themselves or others as belonging to a group.
Table 1:
Comparison of existing datasets with FaiST. The
columns, from left to right, indicate if the content is conver-
sational speech, if the race and national origin labels are avail-
able, and if those are self-identified (* only applies to FaiST-EV)
Name
Conver- Race National
Self-
sational
Origin
Identify
CORAAL [14]
✓
✓
x
x
Common Voice [8]
x
x
x
N/A
Fair-Speech [10]
x
✓
x
✓
Casual [9]
✓
x
x
N/A
Conversations
FaiST
✓
✓
✓
✓*
2.2. Statistics
Figure 1 shows the number of speakers (blue bars) and total
speech durations (green line) in each race category on the cur-
rent version of the dataset. The left Y-axis shows the number of
speakers. The right Y-axis shows the total hours. There are 526
speakers in total- the largest category being ‘White,’ and the
smallest being ‘American Indian or Alaska Native.’ The total
duration is 145.2 hours. There are 63,409 total segments with
the mean and standard deviation of the durations being 8.07 s
and 6.43 s. The average number of words per segment is 24.
3. Dataset creation
The dataset creation process for most of the White American
speakers in FaiST differs from the rest of the dataset. Most
of the White speakers were collected from VoxCeleb, whereas,
for the rest, we used a semi-automated dataset creation pipeline
illustrated in Figure 2. In the following subsections, we will
explain both of the processes: FaiST-V and FaiST-EV.
Figure 1: Number of speakers and total duration per race
3.1. Dataset collection
For FaiST-EV, we gathered our audio recordings from the Inter-
net Archive2. We searched the archive using various keywords
focusing on Asian American and African American speakers
having discussions and conversations. The keywords are struc-
tured following indications included in [11]. We used the names
of specific nations to gather data from as many national origin
groups as possible. We only downloaded files that are under the
CC-BY (Creative Commons Attribution), CC-BY-SA (Creative
Commons Attribution-ShareAlike), and CC-BY-NC (Creative
Commons Attribution-NonCommercial) licenses to avoid copy-
right violation issues. For the White American data, we used the
VoxCeleb dataset instead of collecting data online, hence creat-
ing FaiST-V. We followed this approach because our search for
recordings of White American individuals discussing their cul-
ture and potentially self-identifying yielded very few results.
3.2. Segmentation, diarization, and transcription
After the FaiST-EV audio files were downloaded, they were
cleaned to remove segments containing music, environmental
noises, etc., automatically, using an audio tagging model [15].
Then, we used a Voice Activity Detection3 system to keep only
speech frames, followed by a speech overlap detection model4
to remove frames where multiple speakers talk simultaneously.
Next, we used a diarization system [16, 17] to identify speaker’s
turns. Finally, we used a medium-sized Whisper model [18]
to transcribe these audio files. For FaiST-V, we directly tran-
scribed the recordings from selected VoxCeleb speakers without
the previous steps since these recordings are relatively clean and
only have one speaker in them. The speaker selection process is
described in section 3.3.2.
2https://web.archive.org/
3https://huggingface.co/pyannote/voice-activity-detection
4https://huggingface.co/pyannote/overlapped-speech-detection
1344

3.3. Annotation of race, ethnicity and national origin
3.3.1. Annotation for FaiST-EV
We used GPT-4 to automate the demographic label annotation
process following [11].
The annotation tasks performed by
GPT-4 can be divided into two parts: Filtering and Tagging.
Filtering is the binary task of deciding whether a file is
’relevant’ or not. A file is relevant if it is non-fictional, has co-
herent dialogue or monologue, and talks about race, ethnicity,
or national origin. Filtering the files, downloaded as indicated
in subsection 3.1, by listening would require many hours for
human annotators and would be very costly; hence, we used
GPT-4 on the automatic transcriptions of the audio files. The
filtering and tagging prompts, obtained from different experi-
ments detailed by [11] are available online5.
Tagging entails finding instances of identification and la-
beling the information. GPT-4 is prompted to find any place
in the transcription of an audio file where a speaker is being
identified by themselves or another speaker in the conversation
as belonging to any race/ethnicity/national origin. We call these
instances an ’identification’. Whenever GPT finds an identifica-
tion, it is instructed to gather the following information- source
speaker- who is identifying; target speaker- who is being identi-
fied; race, ethnicity, national origin- what was the speaker iden-
tified as; type- what type of identification it was (as defined in
section 2.1), span- the portion of the conversation where this
identification happened. The race, ethnicity, or national origin
label in one identification only depends on the words spoken in
the span of that identification. For instance, if speaker 02 was
initially identified as White at the beginning of a conversation
but later in the discussion stated, ”my Irish parents would...,” the
second identification would be labeled with the national origin
”Irish” but would not include race or ethnicity labels, as only
national origin was mentioned in that instance.
Figure 2: FaiST-EV dataset creation pipeline
3.3.2. Annotation for FaiST-V
The demographic annotation and speaker selection process for
FaiST-V comes before the transcription step. The process in-
volves reviewing each of the 1,251 celebrities in the develop-
ment and test sets individually, examining the ’Early Life’ or
equivalent section in their Wikipedia entries, and recording any
available information on their ancestry or descent. Next, we
selected speakers who met the following criteria: (1) had avail-
able information on their ancestry or descent (which we used as
national origin labels), (2) were born in North America, and (3)
were of European descent. We ended up with 183 such speak-
ers, whose races we labeled as ’White.’ For FaiST-V, we marked
ethnicity as ’Unknown,’ and we don’t have ’Span’ labels since
there is no self-identification involved.
5https://github.com/Maliha-Jahan/GPT Annotation
3.4. Human verification
The final step is human verification of the auto-generated tran-
scripts and demographic labels. From all the collected data, we
excluded speakers for whom all three labels (race, ethnicity, and
national origin) were ’Unknown.’ For the rest, for both FaiST-
EV and FaiST-V, human annotators listened to the recordings
and corrected any mistakes in the transcript. For FaiST-EV, the
annotators also verified the automated demographic annotations
by removing false positives. False positives are GPT-tagged
identifications that are not actually instances of valid identifi-
cation; for example, GPT may over-interpret someone’s racial
identity based on names. In the same manner, the annotators
ensure that the final demographic label is correct according to
the identification found in the transcription and correct it when
needed.
Our previous work [11] illustrates typical mistakes
made by GPT-4 when performing the demographic annotations.
4. Experiments
To explore the usability of the FaiST dataset on bias analysis
studies, we ran inferences on FaiST using eighteen variants
of seven ASR models6. On those word error scores, we ana-
lyzed racial bias using the Poisson regression model and drop-
in-deviance test. The ASR models are described in table 2.
4.1. Evaluation metric
Following the approach in [12], we used a mixed-effect Pois-
son regression model with rate λ, where word errors serve as
the dependent variable, while various attributes (e.g., race) and
speaker effects act as independent variables. λ is defined as-
log(λij) = log(Nij) + µf(i) + θ⊤xij + ri
(1)
In this formulation, i represents the speaker index, while
j corresponds to the index of the ith speaker’s utterance. The
variable Nij denotes the word count in the utterance. The func-
tion f(i) assigns a group label to speaker i (e.g., ”white” for
race), with µ capturing the group effect of f(i). The term xij
is a vector representing confounding factors related to the utter-
ance, such as attributes not directly being analyzed for bias, and
θ quantifies the influence of x on λ. The random effect at the
speaker level, ri, follows a normal distribution with a mean of
0 and variance σ2. It accounts for individual characteristics.
To test the bias for race, we performed the drop-in-deviance
(DiD) [30] test as shown in Figure 3. By taking the speaker ef-
fect and confounding variables as predictors in a simpler model
and adding race as an additional predictor in the larger model,
we can use DiD to test whether including the race variable sig-
nificantly improves the fit of the Poisson model to the data. If
it does, then that indicates racial bias is present. This approach
accounts for the speaker-level random effects and the effects of
any attribute other than race, e.g., national origin. In our ex-
periments, we did not include national origin as a confounding
variable because it is an open-ended category with potentially
numerous values. We used speaking speed (words per minute)
in our experiments as a confounding effect and used speaker
labels as a grouping variable to account for the speaker-level
random effect. By accounting for these effects, we ensured that
the DiD reflects only race.
DiD is computed as −2 times the difference in the log-
likelihood between the simpler and larger models [30]. If the
simpler model fits the data perfectly, meaning that adding race
6https://github.com/priyammaz/ASRSurvey
1345

Table 2: Summary of all models used for the ASR experiments. The ’Mixed Dataset’ for WavLM Large consists of 60K hours of Libri-
Light [19], 10K hours of GigaSpeech [20], and 24K hours of VoxPopuli [21]. ’Emb.’ stands for Embeddings.
Model
Pretraining Dataset
ASR Finetuning Dataset
Num. of Parameters
SEW W2V Small (sew 2) [22]
Librispeech 960h [23]
TIMIT [24]
89.6 M
SEW W2V Mid (sew 1) [22]
Librispeech 960h
Librispeech 100h [23]
174.7 M
SEW-D W2V Tiny (swd 3) [22]
Librispeech 960h
Librispeech 100h
24.1 M
SEW-D W2V Mid (swd 2) [22]
Librispeech 960h
Librispeech 100h
80.4 M
SEW-D W2V Base (swd 1) [22]
Librispeech 960h
Librispeech 100h
177.0 M
UniSpeech Large (uni 1) [25]
CommonVoice [8]
TIMIT
315.5 M
UniSpeech-SAT Base (uni 2) [26]
Librispeech 960h
Librispeech 100h
94.3 M
Wav2Vec2 Base (wvc 1) [27]
Librispeech 960h
None
94.4 M
Wav2Vec2 Large (wvc 2) [27]
Librispeech 960h
None
315.5 M
WavLM Base (wvl 1) [28]
Librispeech 960h
Librispeech 100h
94.4 M
WavLM Large (wvl 2) [28]
Mixed Dataset
Librispeech 100h
315.5 M
Whisper Tiny (whs 5) [18]
680K h Multilingual [18]
None
37.8 M
Whisper Base (whs 1) [18]
680K Hours Multilingual
None
72.6 M
Whisper Small (whs 4) [18]
680K Hours Multilingual
None
241.7 M
Whisper Medium (whs 3) [18]
680K Hours Multilingual
None
763.9 M
Whisper Large (whs 2) [18]
680K Hours Multilingual
None
1.55 B
Conformer + Relative Emb. (con 3) [29]
Librispeech 960h
None
618.6 M
Conformer + Rope Emb. (con 4) [29]
Librispeech 960h
None
593.3 M
in the larger model does not improve the fit, then the DiD will
follow a χ2 distribution with degrees of freedom equal to the
difference (dfdiff) between the larger and simpler models. The
p-value, in this case, is the probability of a χ2 random vari-
able with dfdiff degrees of freedom being as extreme as the
observed DiD [30]. The p-value suggests whether race is sta-
tistically significant in predicting the dependent variables (word
error in our case). If it is, then the p-value will be low. So, the
higher the p-value, the better the fairness. We used a threshold
of 0.01, below which the p-values indicated bias.
Figure 3: Drop-in-Deviance test. Nij is the number of words.
5. Results and discussion
The p-values for all eighteen experiments were extremely small,
which is why they show up as a straight line under the threshold
(0.01) in Figure 4. Since the p-values are below the thresh-
old, all eighteen ASRs exhibit racial bias. Figure 4 also shows
the coefficients of each race category after fitting a mixed-effect
Poisson regression model to the word errors. A higher coeffi-
cient means a higher expected word error rate, which signifies
a higher bias. From the figure, we can see that the category
’White’ faces the least bias most of the time (12 out of 18). The
other times, the least bias is for the ’Black’ category. Whisper
being trained on multilingual data could be the reason for this.
6. Conclusion, limitations, and future work
We introduce FaiST, a novel dataset of conversational speech
from a diverse group of speakers. FaiST includes recordings
from conversations while containing race, ethnicity, and na-
tional origin labels, which were self-identified. FaiST tags the
instances in the conversations where the speakers were iden-
tified by themselves or someone else as belonging to a group.
These attributes set FaiST apart from the other existing datasets.
One of the limitations of the current version of the dataset is
that it has different sources of data for FaiST-EV and FaiST-
V: though both are interview samples, the recording conditions
may differ. Another limitation is that race, ethnicity, and na-
tional origin labels are not available for all speakers due to
the inherent requirement for the FaiST-EV corpus to contain
explicit identifications of speaker demographics. Finally, the
speakers in FaiST are interviewers or interviewees in podcasts
or TV shows, and these might not represent the breadth of the
race or national origin annotated. They may also have higher lit-
eracy levels than the broader population they represent. FaiST
is an ongoing effort, and we will be releasing newer versions,
including more hours of annotated data and other ethnicities.
Figure 4: P-values of DiD and coefficients of race values for
all ASRs for FaiST
7. Acknowledgements
This project was supported by NSF Award 2147350
8. References
[1] M. Adda-Decker and L. Lamel, “Do speech recognizers prefer
female speakers?” in Proc. Interspeech 2005, 2005.
1346

[2] M. Sawalha and M. A. Shariah, “The effects of speakers’ gender,
age, and region on overall performance of arabic automatic
speech recognition systems using the phonetically rich and
balanced modern standard arabic speech corpus,” 2013. [Online].
Available: https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:59726896
[3] M. Garnerin, S. Rossato, and L. Besacier, “Gender representation
in french broadcast corpora and its impact on asr performance,”
in Proceedings of the 1st International Workshop on AI
for Smart TV Content Production,
Access and Delivery,
ser. AI4TV ’19.
New York,
NY, USA: Association for
Computing Machinery,
2019,
p. 3–9. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3347449.3357480
[4] R. Tatman, “Gender and dialect bias in YouTube’s automatic
captions,” in Proceedings of the First ACL Workshop on Ethics
in Natural Language Processing.
Valencia, Spain: Association
for Computational Linguistics, Apr. 2017, pp. 53–59. [Online].
Available: https://aclanthology.org/W17-1606
[5] A. Koenecke, A. Nam, E. Lake, J. Nudell, M. Quartey,
Z. Mengesha, C. Toups, J. R. Rickford, D. Jurafsky, and
S. Goel, “Racial disparities in automated speech recognition,”
Proceedings
of
the
National
Academy
of
Sciences,
vol.
117,
no. 14,
pp. 7684–7689,
2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.pnas.org/doi/abs/10.1073/pnas.1915768117
[6] S. Feng, O. Kudina, B. M. Halpern, and O. Scharenborg, “Quan-
tifying bias in automatic speech recognition,” 2021.
[7] A. Nagrani, J. S. Chung, and A. Zisserman, “Voxceleb: a large-
scale speaker identification dataset,” in INTERSPEECH, 2017.
[8] R. Ardila,
M. Branson,
K. Davis,
M. Kohler,
J. Meyer,
M. Henretty, R. Morais, L. Saunders, F. Tyers, and G. Weber,
“Common voice: A massively-multilingual speech corpus,” in
Proceedings of the Twelfth Language Resources and Evaluation
Conference.
Marseille, France: European Language Resources
Association, May 2020, pp. 4218–4222. [Online]. Available:
https://aclanthology.org/2020.lrec-1.520/
[9] C. Hazirbas, J. Bitton, B. Dolhansky, J. Pan, A. Gordo, and C. C.
Ferrer, “Towards measuring fairness in ai: The casual conversa-
tions dataset,” IEEE Transactions on Biometrics, Behavior, and
Identity Science, vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 324–332, 2022.
[10] I.-E. Veliche, Z. Huang, V. Ayyat Kochaniyan, F. Peng, O. Kalinli,
and M. L. Seltzer, “Towards measuring fairness in speech recog-
nition: Fair-speech dataset,” in Interspeech 2024, 2024.
[11] M. Jahan, H. Wang, T. Thebaud, Y. Sun, G. H. Le, Z. Fagyal,
O. Scharenborg, M. Hasegawa-Johnson, L. Moro Velazquez, and
N. Dehak, “Finding spoken identifications: Using GPT-4 anno-
tation for an efficient and fast dataset creation pipeline,” in Pro-
ceedings of the 2024 Joint International Conference on Compu-
tational Linguistics, Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC-
COLING 2024).
ELRA and ICCL, May 2024, pp. 7296–7306.
[12] Z. Liu, I.-E. Veliche, and F. Peng, “Model-based approach for
measuring the fairness in asr,” in ICASSP 2022 - 2022 IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP), 2022, pp. 6532–6536.
[13] U. S. E. E. O. Commission,
“EEOC enforcement guid-
ance on national origin discrimination,”
https://www.eeoc.
gov/laws/guidance/\eeoc-enforcement-guidance-national-\
origin-discrimination.
[14] T. Kendall and C. Farrington, “The corpus of regional african
american language.”
The Online Resources for African Ameri-
can Language Project, 2023.
[15] Q. Kong, Y. Cao, T. Iqbal, Y. Wang, W. Wang, and M. D. Plumb-
ley, “Panns: Large-scale pretrained audio neural networks for
audio pattern recognition,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio,
Speech, and Language Processing, vol. 28, pp. 2880–2894, 2020.
[16] H. Bredin, R. Yin, J. M. Coria, G. Gelly, P. Korshunov,
M. Lavechin, D. Fustes, H. Titeux, W. Bouaziz, and M.-P. Gill,
“Pyannote. audio: neural building blocks for speaker diarization,”
in ICASSP 2020-2020 IEEE International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2020, pp.
7124–7128.
[17] H. Bredin and A. Laurent, “End-to-end speaker segmentation
for overlap-aware resegmentation,” Proc. Interspeech 2021, pp.
3111–3115, 2021.
[18] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak su-
pervision,” in Proceedings of the 40th International Conference
on Machine Learning, ser. ICML’23.
JMLR.org, 2023.
[19] J. Kahn, M. Rivi`ere, W. Zheng, E. Kharitonov, Q. Xu, P. Mazar´e,
J. Karadayi, V. Liptchinsky, R. Collobert, C. Fuegen, T. Likhoma-
nenko, G. Synnaeve, A. Joulin, A. Mohamed, and E. Dupoux,
“Libri-light: A benchmark for asr with limited or no supervision,”
in ICASSP 2020 - 2020 IEEE International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2020.
[20] G. Chen, S. Chai, G.-B. Wang, J. Du, W.-Q. Zhang, C. Weng,
D. Su, D. Povey, J. Trmal, J. Zhang, M. Jin, S. Khudanpur,
S. Watanabe, S. Zhao, W. Zou, X. Li, X. Yao, Y. Wang, Z. You,
and Z. Yan, “Gigaspeech: An evolving, multi-domain asr cor-
pus with 10,000 hours of transcribed audio,” in Interspeech 2021,
2021, pp. 3670–3674.
[21] C. Wang, M. Riviere, A. Lee, A. Wu, C. Talnikar, D. Haz-
iza, M. Williamson, J. Pino, and E. Dupoux, “VoxPopuli: A
large-scale multilingual speech corpus for representation learn-
ing, semi-supervised learning and interpretation,” in Proceedings
of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Nat-
ural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers).
Online:
Association for Computational Linguistics, 2021, pp. 993–1003.
[22] F. Wu, K. Kim, J. Pan, K. J. Han, K. Q. Weinberger, and Y. Artzi,
“Performance-efficiency trade-offs in unsupervised pre-training
for speech recognition,” CoRR, vol. abs/2109.06870, 2021.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2109.06870
[23] V. Panayotov, G. Chen, D. Povey, and S. Khudanpur, “Lib-
rispeech: An asr corpus based on public domain audio books,”
in 2015 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2015, pp. 5206–5210.
[24] J. S. Garofolo, “Timit acoustic-phonetic continuous speech cor-
pus,” 1993.
[25] C. Wang, Y. Wu, Y. Qian, K. Kumatani, S. Liu, F. Wei, M. Zeng,
and X. Huang, “Unispeech:
Unified speech representation
learning with labeled and unlabeled data,” 2021. [Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.07597
[26] S. Chen, Y. Wu, C. Wang, Z. Chen, Z. Chen, S. Liu, J. Wu,
Y. Qian, F. Wei, J. Li, and X. Yu, “Unispeech-sat: Universal
speech representation learning with speaker aware pre-training.”
IEEE SigPort, 2022.
[27] A. Baevski, Y. Zhou, A. Mohamed, and M. Auli, “wav2vec 2.0:
A framework for self-supervised learning of speech representa-
tions,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
vol. 33.
Curran Associates, Inc., 2020, pp. 12 449–12 460.
[Online]. Available:
https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper files/
paper/2020/file/92d1e1eb1cd6f9fba3227870bb6d7f07-Paper.pdf
[28] S. Chen,
C. Wang,
Z. Chen,
Y. Wu,
S. Liu,
Z. Chen,
J. Li, N. Kanda, T. Yoshioka, X. Xiao, J. Wu, L. Zhou,
S. Ren, Y. Qian, Y. Qian, J. Wu, M. Zeng, and X. Yu,
“Wavlm: Large-scale self-supervised pre-training for full stack
speech processing,” IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal
Processing, vol. 16, no. 6, p. 1505–1518, Oct. 2022. [Online].
Available: http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JSTSP.2022.3188113
[29] C. Wang,
Y. Tang,
X. Ma,
A. Wu,
D. Okhonko,
and
J. M. Pino, “fairseq S2T: fast speech-to-text modeling with
fairseq,” CoRR, vol. abs/2010.05171, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.05171
[30] P. Roback and J. Legler, Beyond Multiple Linear Regression: Ap-
plied Generalized Linear Models and Multilevel Models in R.
CRC Press, 2020, chapter 4.4.4.
1347

