Prediction of listening effort ratings for habitual and clear-Lombard speech 
presented in noise 
Esther Janse1,2, Chen Shen3, Martin Cooke4,5 
1Centre for Language Studies and 2Donders Institute, Radboud University, The Netherlands 
3Radboud in’to Languages, Radboud University, The Netherlands 
4Ikerbasque (Basque Science Foundation) and 5LASLAB, University of the Basque Country, Spain 
esther.janse@ru.nl, chen.shen@ru.nl, m.cooke@ikerbasque.org 
 
Abstract 
Earlier research developed the high-energy glimpse proportion 
metric (HEGP) to capture those speech-dominant spectro-
temporal regions, or glimpses, that survive energetic masking 
when speech is presented in noise. Whereas the HEGP metric 
has been shown to correlate with intelligibility of speech 
presented in noise, this study investigated whether HEGP 
predicts listening effort (LE) ratings, and if so, whether it does 
so differentially for habitual and clear-Lombard speech. 
Secondly, the study investigated whether acoustic measures of 
spectral balance, median F0 and F0 range, and articulation rate, 
explained additional variance in LE. Results showed that HEGP 
predicted LE ratings equally strongly across speaking styles. 
Beyond HEGP, wider F0 range and lower articulation rate were 
also associated with decreased LE, particularly in the habitual 
speech condition. Thus, the HEGP release-from-masking 
metric, complemented by speaking-style aspects, can help 
explain LE ratings in noise. 
Index Terms: listening effort, glimpsing, masking, noise, F0, 
speech rate 
1. Introduction 
Earlier research developed the articulation index [1] and the 
subsequent Speech Intelligibility Index (SII; [2]) to account for 
the finding that speech intelligibility in noise is proportional to 
the amount of audible speech information in a number of 
frequency bands. Following up on an earlier glimpsing model 
proposed to predict speech intelligibility in noise [3], Tang and 
Cooke [4] developed the high-energy glimpse proportion 
metric (HEGP) to capture those speech-dominant spectro-
temporal regions, or glimpses, that survive energetic masking 
when speech is presented in noise. In line with findings from 
other intelligibility metrics [5, 6], Tang and Cooke [4] showed 
that selecting only high-energy glimpses led to equal or 
improved correlations between predicted and subjective 
intelligibility (i.e., percentage keywords correctly identified by 
listeners), relative to taking all glimpses into account.  
Though the HEGP metric has been shown to correlate with 
intelligibility across speech types and signal-to-noise ratios [4], 
its connection to listening effort (LE) remains unexplored. 
Importantly, LE measures may capture differences in ‘ease of 
processing’ across various listening conditions, even when 
speech is maximally intelligible. These measures can thus help 
quantify differences in the effort required to understand what 
has been said. LE has been operationalized in different ways 
[7], including behavioral measures (e.g., response times; [8]), 
physiological measures (such as pupillometry [9]), or self-
report measures, such as questionnaires or rating scales (e.g., 
[10, 11]). A recent study by Simantiraki and colleagues [12] 
explicitly investigated the relationship between intelligibility, 
self-reported LE, and a pupil dilation measure for different 
speech conditions, including artificially-enhanced and synthetic 
speech conditions. Simantiraki et al. found that intelligibility 
scores were inversely related to subjective LE ratings, whereas 
the relationship between intelligibility and pupillometry data 
was more complex. Given this inverse relationship observed in 
[12], HEGP scores in the present study might be expected to 
predict subjective effort ratings. 
When speaking in the presence of noise, talkers generally 
adjust their speech to (partly) overcome the noise. Talkers 
producing this so-called ‘Lombard’ speech [13-14] are known 
to increase vocal effort and slow down speech rate. Shen et al. 
[15] reported an acoustic analysis of 78 talkers producing 
speech in two speaking styles: a habitual style, and a style where 
talkers spoke in the presence of loud noise and were instructed 
to speak clearly. Given the combination of noise exposure and 
explicit clear-speech instruction, this style was termed ‘clear-
Lombard style’ to differentiate it from simple Lombard or clear 
speech. As expected, speech in the clear-Lombard style was 
slower, exhibited a higher and more variable F0, and was 
produced with less spectral roll-off than habitual speech.  
Following up on this acoustic analysis [15], the present 
study collected listening effort ratings for a subset of the same 
speech samples, presented to raters in the same speech-shaped 
noise that had been used to elicit the clear-Lombard speech in 
[15]. Specifically, we investigated whether human LE ratings 
can be predicted from HEGP scores for the two speaking styles 
(habitual and clear-Lombard style; thereby including conditions 
where talkers do and do not adapt their speech to the 
background noise), and if so, whether HEGP’s predictive power 
differs for the two styles (Research Question 1).  
However, note that HEGP only quantifies the contribution 
of energetic masking to intelligibility or LE, while other 
acoustic measures may reflect different aspects of between-
talker and between-speaking style differences related to speech 
clarity and, hence, to ease of processing. For instance, [15] 
focused on four acoustic-phonetic measures: articulation rate, 
median F0, F0 range, and spectral balance differences between 
the two speaking styles. These acoustic-phonetic measures may 
explain additional variance in LE ratings, not accounted for by 
HEGP, and some of them have been related previously to 
intelligibility gains in Lombard or clear speech (cf. [16], for a 
review of context-induced speech modifications and their 
impact on intelligibility). Therefore, our second research 
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
1288
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-892

question (RQ2) asks, if HEGP predicts listening effort ratings, 
do sentence-level acoustic-phonetic measures (i.e., articulation 
rate, F0 median and F0 range, and spectral balance) explain 
additional variance in listening effort ratings? In line with RQ1, 
RQ2 also asks whether the strength of the relationship between 
LE ratings on the one hand and acoustic measures on the other 
differs between habitual and clear-Lombard styles. 
Given the overlap between the release-from-masking nature 
of the HEGP metric and spectral balance, the latter is not 
expected to explain much additional variance in listening effort. 
Likewise, mean F0 was shown not to relate to sentence 
intelligibility if gender-dependent intelligibility differences are 
accounted for [17], thus it is not expected to explain additional 
variance in listening effort ratings. Slower articulation rate [18-
20, but cf. 17], and enlarged pitch range [17, but cf. 21], on the 
other hand, may help listeners to understand speech in noise 
with less effort, possibly because they serve as proxies for a 
clearer speaking style [22]. We addressed our research 
questions by presenting a subsample of the materials from [15] 
in an online rating study. 
2. Methods  
2.1. Participants 
Listening effort ratings were collected from 230 young adult 
normal-hearing participants via a university participant portal. 
Participants were all Radboud University students, aged 
between 18 and 30 years, normal-hearing and native speakers 
of Dutch (as per self-report). Participants were reimbursed for 
their participation with a digital gift voucher after a response 
validity check (a check that participants did not provide the 
same rating throughout the experiment). Ethics consent was 
obtained for the rating procedure from the Ethics Committee for 
the Humanities at Radboud University. Informed consent was 
obtained from all raters prior to their involvement in the study. 
2.2. Speech materials 
The speech materials were a subset of the multi-talker sample 
reported in [15], in which talkers read the same sentence set 
twice: first in their habitual reading style, and then in loud 
speech-shaped noise presented over headphones. Talkers were 
instructed to speak as clearly as possible when reading in noise 
(i.e., clear-Lombard style). Talkers read the same sentences 
from the sentence set twice in two different random orders: one 
for the habitual and one for the clear-Lombard style. All 48 test 
sentences were between 12 and 16 syllables long and were 
syntactically correct and semantically plausible. An example 
sentence is ‘Ferdi heeft het boek helaas in het park laten liggen’ 
(‘Ferdi has unfortunately left the book in the park’). 
For the rating of listening effort, we wanted to avoid 
presenting the same sentence content to raters more than once, 
as listening effort may be lower upon hearing the same content 
repeatedly. As our materials involved two renditions (reading 
styles) of the 48 unique sentences from 78 talkers, each rater 
could only rate 48 utterances (sampled from different talkers 
and the two styles). Out of the total sample of 78 talkers, speech 
materials of a subset of 48 talkers were selected in a 
pseudorandom fashion. That is, the only selection restriction 
was that twice as many female (32) as male talkers (16) were 
selected, in line with the unequal gender distribution in the total 
sample. The total number of utterances presented in the online 
rating study thus amounted to 48 (talkers) * 48 (unique 
sentences) * 2 (speaking conditions) = 4608 utterances.  
Each participant in the current study rated 48 unique 
utterances from six different talkers. Specifically, each rater 
was presented with eight utterances per talker: four in the 
habitual speaking style and four in the clear-Lombard style. 
Utterances were distributed over 96 different experimental lists 
to accommodate multiple combinations of talkers, speaking 
styles, and sentence content. 
All 4608 utterances were scaled to an average intensity of 
65 dB SPL and mixed with speech-shaped noise of 71 dB SPL 
into a mono recording, resulting in an SNR of -6 dB. The noise 
started 500 ms before sentence onset and lasted till 500 ms after 
sentence offset. Additionally, there were 200 ms fade-in and 
fade-out times only affecting the noise in the recording. 
Following [4], HEGP scores were calculated for all 4608 
utterances for presentation in speech-shaped noise at -6 dB 
SNR. Note that the speech-shaped noise for HEGP calculation 
and speech presentation was the same noise used to elicit the 
clear-Lombard speaking style during reading aloud [15]. HEGP 
scores range between 0 and 1, with higher numbers indicating 
a higher glimpse proportion escaping energetic masking, in turn 
indexing higher predicted intelligibility. 
Sentence-level acoustic measures (articulation rate in 
syllables per second, F0 median and range, and spectral balance) 
were available for these materials from [15]. Spectral balance 
was calculated by extracting the long-term average spectrum of 
each sentence with a filter bandwidth of 100 Hz and subtracting 
the energy maximum in the low-frequency range (0-2 kHz) 
from that in the high-frequency range (2-5 kHz), with higher 
values indicating less vocal effort. (Median) F0 values were 
converted to semitones, with 1 Hz as reference value. For F0 
range, the difference between the 10th and 90th percentile was 
computed for each sentence. 
2.3. Procedure 
Upon receiving and clicking the link to the online study, 
participants provided informed consent for their anonymous 
rating data to be used for research purposes. Participants were 
only directed to the rating study if they met the inclusion criteria 
concerning age, hearing and native speaker status (cf. 2.1). 
Participants were randomly assigned to one of 96 
experimental lists. They were presented with four practice items 
(identical across lists) to familiarize themselves with the task 
procedure and noise level. Practice items were taken from four 
different talkers (3 female and 1 male), who formed a subset of 
the test-material talker set. Practice items differed in lexical 
content from the 48 test sentences but were mixed with speech-
shaped noise at the same SNR as the test materials. Participants 
were instructed to listen to the materials through headphones 
and to adjust the presentation level to an optimal level for 
sentence understanding. Participants could only listen to each 
utterance once before providing their rating (during practice 
and test) and could only proceed to the next trial after clicking 
the play button and providing their listening effort rating. 
Participants rated their listening effort to understand the 
sentence content of the utterance on a scale from 1 to 7 with 1 
representing ‘not effortful at all to understand’ and 7 
representing ‘extremely effortful to understand’. This scale was 
an adapted version of the Adaptive Categorical Listening Effort 
Scaling Test developed by Krueger et al. [10]. The phrasing of 
listening effort here thus also includes understanding the words 
themselves, and hence the notion of comprehensibility. Note 
that Krueger et al. [10] included the option for raters to respond 
with ‘only noise’ when no speech cues were perceived, 
1289

complementary to the 7-point effort scale. Given our set-up 
with a fixed signal-to-noise level, which was based on pilot 
testing to yield, on average, medium effort levels across styles, 
this ‘only noise’ option was not included in our set-up. The 
verbal labels representing the scale extremes were visible 
throughout the test. Participants clicked one of seven radio 
buttons to provide their rating. Participants were instructed to 
consider whether they could understand part of the sentence and 
to provide a rating of 7 if they had hardly understood anything, 
and to choose a lower rating if they had understood at least some 
words. The presentation order of utterances on a specific list 
was randomized for each participant. 
2.4. Statistical analysis 
The obtained ratings of the 230 raters were analyzed with linear 
mixed-effects models in RStudio (R version 4.3.1) with the 
lme4 package (version 1.1-15). To address the first research 
question (RQ1), we fitted models without additional acoustic 
measures to only investigate how listening effort rating was 
predicted by HEGP. Additionally, RQ1 addressed whether this 
relationship between listening effort rating and HEGP was 
modulated by speaking style, thus testing for the effects of 
HEGP score and Speaking style as the fixed effects of interest, 
and their interaction, on listening effort ratings. Talker gender 
was added as a control variable. Additionally, we compared a 
model with Talker gender as a main effect to a model in which 
Talker gender interacted with Speaking style to test whether 
male or female talkers made larger clear-Lombard adjustments 
to clarify their speech. Models were compared with the anova() 
function in R to decide on the best fitting model. Across models, 
Sentence ID, talker ID, and rater ID were included as random 
effects, and we also included a by-talker random slope for 
Speaking style to account for the fact that talkers differed in the 
extent to which their two speaking styles differed. Sum coding 
was used for contrast coding of Speaking style and Gender, and 
all continuous predictor variables were mean-centered. 
As a second step, to answer the second research question 
(RQ2), we took the best fitting model from step 1 and compared 
its fit to that of a model in which four speech acoustics measures 
(articulation rate, median F0, F0 range, and spectral balance) 
were added as continuous (mean-centered) predictors to see 
whether their inclusion could explain additional variance in 
listening effort ratings. Specifically, we tested whether the 
speech measures were differentially predictive of listening 
effort, depending on speaking style (thus testing for their 
interaction). Lastly, if their (joint) inclusion improved model fit, 
we also tested which speech measure(s) improved model fit. 
3. Results 
The 230 raters each rated 48 utterances, which amounted to 
11040 ratings. Consequently, each of the 4608 utterances, 
which represented a combination of sentence, talker and 
speaking style, was rated by two or three raters. Descriptive data 
on listening effort ratings, HEGP predicted intelligibility 
scores, and acoustic measures for the habitual and clear-
Lombard speaking style materials are provided in Figure 1. 
Figure 1 provides a histogram for the discrete rating data, and 
density plots for all continuous (speech-material) measures. 
Note that the bimodal distribution of F0 median reflects the 
inclusion of male and female talkers. Compared to the habitual 
speaking style, effort ratings are lower and HEGP is higher for 
the clear-Lombard style. As mentioned earlier, speech in the 
clear-Lombard style was slower, exhibited a higher and more 
variable F0, and was produced with less spectral roll-off than 
habitual speech [15]. Correlation strength (Pearson r) between 
HEGP and each of the four acoustic measures ranged between 
0.35 (F0 range) and -0.81 (spectral balance), across styles. 
A comparison of the models that were run to address RQ1 
showed that Talker gender did not interact with Speaking style. 
The simpler model was therefore selected, in which Gender was 
added as a control variable, without its interaction with 
Speaking Style. Results from this simpler Step 1 model are 
illustrated in Figure 2, and show that listening effort ratings can 
be predicted from HEGP (β = -8.93 (SE = 0.41), t = -21.93, p < 
0.001), where higher HEGP scores relate to lower perceived 
listening effort, and from Speaking Style, with clear-Lombard 
style leading to lower perceived listening effort than habitual 
style (β = -0.55 (SE = 0.08), t = -7.14, p < 0.001). However, the 
predictive power of the HEGP metric did not differ across 
speaking styles (β = 0.58 (SE = 0.61), t < 1, n.s.). The Gender 
effect (β = 0.81 (SE = 0.11), t = 7.15, p < 0.001) showed that 
male voices were rated more effortful to listen to than female 
voices, and this held equally across styles.  
 
 
Figure 1: Distribution data for listening effort ratings 
(N = 11040, top left panel) and speech-material 
measures (for each of which N = 4608), split by 
speaking style. Dotted lines represent the distribution 
means per speaking style. 
 
Figure 2: Step 1 model plot showing the association 
between listening effort rating and HEGP for speech 
(presented in noise), across the two speaking styles. 
1290

In order to address RQ2, we took the Step 1 model, and 
added the four speech (acoustic-phonetic) measures, and their 
interaction with speaking style. The resulting Step 2 model had 
a significantly better fit than the Step 1 model (cf. section 2.4). 
The Step 2 model is presented in Table 1. Three out of the four 
additional acoustic measures surfaced as significant predictors 
of listening effort. That is, an increased pitch range decreased 
listening effort, and higher values for spectral balance 
(indicating steeper spectral roll-off), as well as higher 
articulation rates, were associated with increased listening 
effort. Like HEGP, spectral balance was equally predictive of 
listening effort, regardless of speaking style. However, the 
relationships between F0 range and articulation rate on the one 
hand, and listening effort on the other, were modulated by 
speaking style: both acoustic measures were more strongly 
associated with listening effort for habitual speech. 
Table 1: Step 2 model predicting listening effort 
ratings. Significance level notation indicates that p < 
0.05 (*); p < 0.01 (**); or p < 0.001 (***). 
 
 Step 2 model parameters 
Fixed effects 
Estimate (SE) 
t (sign. level) 
HEGP 
-8.42 (0.50) 
-16.71 (***) 
(Speaking) Style 
-0.39 (0.082) 
-4.67 (***) 
HEGP x Style 
-0.068 (0.80) 
-0.08 
Gender 
0.80 (0.13) 
6.21 (***) 
F0 range 
-0.036 (0.008) 
-4.56 (***) 
Spectral balance 
0.011 (0.0052) 
2.10 (*) 
Articulation rate 
0.094 (0.033) 
2.82 (**) 
F0 median 
0.0037 (0.0077) 
0.48 
F0 range x Style 
0.036 (0.015) 
2.45 (*) 
Spectral 
bal. 
x 
Style 
-0.00015 
(0.0095) 
-0.02 
Artic. rate x Style 
-0.19 (0.047) 
-4.10 (***) 
F0 median x Style 
0.00068 (0.011) 
0.06 
Random effects 
Variance (SD) 
Rater 
0.44 (0.66) 
Talker 
0.12 (0.35) 
Style x Talker 
0.17 (0.41) 
Sentence 
0.07 (0.26) 
 
As a last step, we analyzed whether each of the three 
(additional) acoustic measures that surfaced as significant 
predictors of listening effort in the Step 2 model individually 
improved model fit, relative to the Step 1 model. This was 
indeed the case for articulation rate and F0 range, but not for 
spectral balance, in line with our expectation. Hence, 
articulation rate and F0 range, if added as main effects, but even 
more so if allowed to interact with speaking style (cf. Table 1), 
explained variance in listening effort, beyond the predictive 
power of energetic masking level (HEGP). 
4. Discussion 
This study investigated whether listening effort ratings, for 
speech presented in speech-shaped noise, could be predicted by 
an energetic masking measure that focuses on high-energy 
glimpses (HEGP, [4]). In line with our expectation, an inverse 
relationship between HEGP and subjective listening effort was 
observed. Moreover, this association between HEGP and effort 
held equally strongly for speech produced habitually and for 
speech produced in a clear-Lombard style. Secondly, as HEGP 
only reflects (escape from) energetic masking, we asked 
whether acoustic measures related to speech clarity, rather than 
masking, would explain additional variance in LE ratings for 
both speaking styles. Indeed, adding articulation rate and pitch 
range significantly improved model fit, and hence accounted for 
additional variance in effort ratings.  
These latter results are in line with findings on associations 
between speech rate (e.g., [19]) and F0 range on the one hand 
and intelligibility on the other [17]. That is to say, slower rate 
and extended pitch range may not only be the best proxies for 
careful articulation (out of the included measures), extended 
pitch range may also help listeners to keep their attention 
focused on the target speech. Additionally, our observation that 
median F0 did not predict listening effort if gender-dependent 
intelligibility differences are accounted for is in line with 
previous literature linking acoustic variation to speech 
intelligibility in noise [17].  
The observation that male talkers were rated as more 
effortful to listen to than female talkers could relate to actual 
‘inherent’ differences in how clearly (the selected) male and 
female talkers speak, or to different amounts of energetic 
masking. Specifically, even though the speech-shaped noise 
was based on equal numbers of male and female talkers, the 
noise’s spectral composition may have masked relatively more 
of the speech content of the male than female talkers. A post-
hoc t-test showed evidence that averaged HEGP scores for the 
female-talker materials (0.47) were indeed higher than those for 
male talkers (0.42), explaining at least part of the gender effect. 
Note that more variation was observed in clear-Lombard 
than habitual speech, in terms of listening effort values, and in 
HEGP values, as well as articulation rate and F0 range values, 
as predictors of listening effort (see wider distributions for 
clear-Lombard style in Figure 1). In principle, this greater 
variation could allow associations to show up more strongly for 
clear-Lombard speech. Such a result would also be in line with 
results by Paulus and colleagues [23], showing talker-acoustics 
effects on listening effort quantified by pupillometry for more 
intelligible speech conditions, but not for less intelligible 
speech conditions (with less variation in pupil dilation). 
However, whereas the predictive strength of HEGP for listening 
effort remained the same across speaking styles, articulation 
rate and F0 range were found to be more strongly associated 
with listening effort for habitual-style speech than for clear-
Lombard speech. One interpretation of these results is that 
HEGP (as well as spectral balance, cf. Table 1), representing 
speech audibility, can be considered an important first 
prerequisite for linguistic processing, and therefore equally 
important across speaking styles. Given sufficient speech 
audibility, speech clarity differences (between talkers and 
between sentences) may then matter more for habitual than 
clear-Lombard speech, possibly because of the overall lower 
clarity of habitual speech. 
5. Conclusion 
In the current study native listeners provided listening effort 
ratings for two forms of speech, habitual and clear-Lombard, 
presented in speech-shaped noise. The principal novel finding 
was that an existing objective intelligibility metric  (HEGP), 
complemented by speech-clarity related acoustic measures of 
F0 range and articulation rate, can help explain listening effort 
ratings in noise across speaking styles. These findings also 
provide further evidence for the link between objective 
intelligibility and subjective ratings of listening effort. 
1291

6. References 
[1] K.D. Kryter, “Methods for the calculation and use of the 
articulation index,” Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 
vol. 34, no. 11, pp. 1689–1697, 1962. 
[2] H. J. M. Steeneken and T. Houtgast, “A physical method for 
measuring speech-transmission quality,” Journal of the 
Acoustical Society of America, vol. 67, no. 1, pp. 318–326, 1980. 
[3] M. Cooke, “A glimpsing model of speech perception in noise,” 
Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 119, no. 3, pp. 
1562–1573, 2006. 
[4] Y. Tang and M. Cooke, M., “Glimpse-based metrics for 
predicting speech intelligibility in additive noise conditions,” in 
Proc. INTERSPEECH 2016 – 17th Annual Conference of the 
International Speech Communication Association, San Francisco, 
USA, Sep.2016, pp. 2488–2492. 
[5] J. Kates and K. Arehart, “Coherence and the speech intelligibility 
index,” Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 117, no. 
4, pp. 2224–2237, 2005.  
[6] C. Christiansen, M. S. Pedersen, and T. Dau, “Prediction of 
speech intelligibility based on an auditory preprocessing model,” 
Speech Communication, vol. 52, no. 7-8, pp. 678–692, 2010. 
[7] R. McGarrigle, K. J. Munro, P. Dawes, A. J. Stewart, D. R. 
Moore, J. G. Barry, et al., “Listening eﬀort and fatigue: what 
exactly are we measuring? A British Society of Audiology 
Cognition in Hearing special interest group ‘white paper’,” 
International Journal of Audiology, vol. 53, 433–440, 2014. 
[8] C. Pals, A. Sarampalis, A. Beynon, T. Stainsby, and D. Başkent, 
“Effect 
of 
spectral 
channels 
on 
speech 
recognition, 
comprehension, and listening effort in cochlear-implant users,” 
Trends in Hearing, vol. 24, 2331216520904617, 2020. 
[9] A. A. Zekveld, S.E. Kramer, and J. M. Festen, “Pupil response as 
an indication of eﬀortful listening: The influence of sentence 
intelligibility,” Ear and Hearing, vol. 31, pp. 480–490, 2010. 
[10] M. Krueger, M. Schulte, T. Brand, and I. Holube, “Development 
of an adaptive scaling method for subjective listening effort,”  
Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 141, no. 6, pp. 
4680–4693, 2017.  
[11] M. Krueger, M. Schulte, M. A. Zokoll, K. C. Wagener, M. Meis, 
T. Brand, and I. Holube, “Relationship between listening effort 
and speech intelligibility in noise,” American Journal of 
Audiology, vol. 26, pp. no. 3S, 378–392, 2017  
[12] O. Simantiraki, A. E. Wagner, and M. Cooke, “The impact of 
speech type on listening effort and intelligibility for native and 
non-native listeners,” Frontiers in Neuroscience, vol. 17, 
1235911, 2023. 
[13] E. Lombard, “Le signe de l’elevation de la voix. Ann. Mal. de L’ 
Oreille et du Larynx,” vol. 37, pp. 101–119, 1911. 
[14] W. V. Summers, D. B. Pisoni, R. H. Bernacki, R. I. Pedlow, and 
M. A. Stokes, “Eﬀects of noise on speech production: Acoustic 
and perceptual analyses,” Journal of the Acoustical Society of 
America, vol. 84, 917–928, 1988. 
[15] C. Shen, M. Cooke, and E. Janse, “Speaking in the presence of 
noise: Consistency of acoustic properties in clear-Lombard 
speech over time,” Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 
vol. 153, pp. 2165–2177, 2023. 
[16] M. Cooke,  S. King, M. Garnier, and V. Aubanel, “The listening 
talker: A review of human and algorithmic context-induced 
modifications of speech,” Computer Speech and Language, vol. 
28, no. 2, pp. 543-571, 2014.  
[17] A. R. Bradlow, G. M. Torretta, and D. B. Pisoni,  “Intelligibility 
of normal speech I: Global and fine-grained acoustic-phonetic 
talker characteristics,” Speech Communication, vol. 20, 255–272, 
1996. 
[18] J. C. Krause, and L.D. Braida, “Investigating alternative forms of 
clear speech: the effects of speaking rate and speaking mode on 
intelligibility,” Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 
112, pp. 2165–2172, 2002.  
[19] S. H. Ferguson and S. D. Morgan, “Talker differences in clear and 
conversational speech: Perceived sentence clarity for young 
adults with normal hearing and older adults with hearing loss,” 
Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research, vol 61, no. 
1, pp. 159–173, 2018.  
[20] R. M. Uchanski, S. S. Choi, L. D. Braida, C. Reed, and N. I. 
Durlach, “Speaking clearly for the hard of hearing IV: Further 
studies of the role of speaking rate,” Journal of Speech, Language, 
and Hearing Research, vol. 39, no. 3, 494–509, 1996.  
[21] C. Mayo, V. Aubanel, and M. Cooke, “Effect of prosodic changes 
on speech intelligibility,” in Proc. INTERSPEECH 2012 – 13th 
Annual Conference of the International Speech Communication 
Association, Portland, USA, Sep. 2012, pp. 1708–1711.  
[22] V. Hazan and D. Markham, “Acoustic-phonetic correlates of 
talker intelligibility for adults and children, ” Journal of the 
Acoustical Society of America, vol. 116, pp. 3108–3118, 2004. 
[23] M. Paulus, V. Hazan, and P. Adank, “The relationship between 
talker acoustics, intelligibility, and effort in degraded listening 
conditions, ” Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol. 
147, pp. 3348–3359, 2020. 
 
1292
