Facilitating Personalized TTS for Dysarthric Speakers Using
Knowledge Anchoring and Curriculum Learning
Yejin Jeon1, Solee Im1, Youngjae Kim1, Gary Geunbae Lee1,2
1GSAI, POSTECH, South Korea
2CSE, POSTECH, South Korea
jeonyj0612@postech.ac.kr, solee0022@postech.ac.kr, yj122198@postech.ac.kr,
gblee@postech.ac.kr
Abstract
Dysarthric speakers experience substantial communication
challenges due to impaired motor control of the speech appara-
tus, which leads to reduced speech intelligibility. This creates
significant obstacles in dataset curation since actual recording
of long, articulate sentences for the objective of training person-
alized TTS models becomes infeasible. Thus, the limited avail-
ability of audio data, in addition to the articulation errors that
are present within the audio, complicates personalized speech
synthesis for target dysarthric speaker adaptation. To address
this, we frame the issue as a domain transfer task and introduce
a knowledge anchoring framework that leverages a teacher-
student model, enhanced by curriculum learning through au-
dio augmentation. Experimental results show that the proposed
zero-shot multi-speaker TTS model effectively generates syn-
thetic speech with markedly reduced articulation errors and high
speaker fidelity, while maintaining prosodic naturalness.
Index Terms: personalized speech synthesis, speech disorders,
domain transfer
1. Introduction
Dysarthric speech emerges from a range of etiological factors,
including cerebrovascular incidents such as strokes, as well
as neuromuscular disorders linked to multiple sclerosis, cere-
bral palsy, and Parkinson’s disease [1, 2, 3]. These condi-
tions compromise the neuromuscular control of speech produc-
tion mechanisms, resulting in slurred, unintelligible, and pho-
netically distorted speech, which poses significant barriers to
verbal communication. Given that speech is a fundamental
medium for self-expression and social interaction, individuals
with dysarthria frequently experience frustration, social isola-
tion, and a diminished quality of life [4]. In response to these
communication challenges, research has taken two primary di-
rections: improving comprehension from the listener’s perspec-
tive, and enhancing speech production from the speaker’s per-
spective. Most existing research has prioritized the former by
conducting research focusing on the enhancement of automatic
speech recognition (ASR) systems so as to facilitate more ef-
fective communication by enabling caregivers, medical pro-
fessionals, and downstream assistive technologies to interpret
dysarthric speech with greater accuracy [5, 6, 7, 8].
While interpretation of affected speech is important, it is
also crucial to empower dysarthric individuals by enhancing
their ability to produce more intelligible speech and enhance
their quality of life. Given that articulation deficits are a
defining characteristic of dysarthria, early speaker-centric ap-
proaches sought to improve intelligibility by substituting im-
paired speech segments with unaffected ones [9, 10, 11]. How-
ever, these approaches resulted in the loss of the speaker’s
(a) Normal articulation.
(b) Dysarthric articulation.
Figure 1: Visualizations of the articulation differences between
a highly intelligible female speaker and a low-intelligibility
dysarthric speaker. The dysarthric speaker exhibits elongated
speech production (2.0s vs. 0.6s) and segmented articulation.
unique vocal identity as the average model voice was utilized.
To mitigate this issue, voice banking emerged as an alternative,
allowing individuals to pre-record speech samples before the
onset of dysarthria for later reconstruction of their natural voice
[12, 13]. Although effective for progressive degenerative con-
ditions, this method is infeasible for individuals with sudden-
onset dysarthria (e.g., stroke) as they lack pre-recorded samples.
Multi-speaker text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis offers an effi-
cient alternative by generating speech from textual input while
simultaneously cloning the speaker’s voice from reference au-
dio. However, training such models from scratch or even em-
ploying few-shot learning using dysarthric speech presents sig-
nificant challenges. Dysarthric speech often contains articu-
lation errors, which if used as training data, result in models
that produce unstable and unintelligible synthetic speech. Addi-
tionally, TTS models typically require large-scale, high-quality
training datasets, which makes it impractical to rely solely
on dysarthric recordings. To circumvent these issues, prior
works have explored hybrid approaches that sequentially utilize
a single-speaker TTS and voice conversion model [14, 15].
In order to address the aforementioned limitations that are
inherent in few-shot and from-scratch approaches, we focus on
zero-shot multi-speaker TTS [16, 17] since just a single ref-
erence recording of the target speaker is required to conduct
voice-preserving speech synthesis [16, 17]. Yet, extending this
approach to the domain of dysarthric speech is not straightfor-
ward because there exists a fundamental mismatch between the
audio samples used for model training and inference. This do-
main discrepancy is twofold; not only do variations in articula-
tion exist, which range from highly intelligible to less intelligi-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2108 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-596

ble speech, but dysarthric speech samples are often limited to
single-word utterances [18] due to the speakers’ physical diffi-
culties in speech production (Figure 1). This setting is in stark
contrast to the much longer and well-articulated sentences typ-
ical of standard TTS datasets [19, 20]. Consequently, this chal-
lenge can be reframed as a zero-shot domain transfer problem,
wherein the model must immediately and effectively extract
speaker-specific vocal characteristics while remaining robust to
articulation distortions in the input reference audio, which differ
significantly from those encountered in the training data.
To resolve the dual domain transfer challenge seen in zero-
shot multi-speaker TTS for dysarthric speakers, we take in-
spiration from pedagogical and physical therapy rehabilitation
paradigms, where an expert plays a fundamental role in guid-
ing a learner in the acquisition of a skill. To the best of our
knowledge, we propose the first teacher-student framework for
this task, in which a teacher model generates an anchored rep-
resentation that stabilizes learning and guides a student model
throughout a structured learning process. Furthermore, a key
aspect of this structured training is its adherence to a curricu-
lum learning strategy, where the student model is gradually in-
troduced to progressively shorter inputs. As a result, the stu-
dent model learns to generalize effectively to the short and
highly variable nature of dysarthric speech during inference.
In essence, our methodology enables the model to disentangle
speaker identity from speech articulation distortions, thereby fa-
cilitating the generation of highly intelligible speech that retains
the distinct voice of the target dysarthric speaker. The efficacy
of our approach is substantiated through both objective and sub-
jective evaluations, and demonstrates its potential to enhance
personalized communication for dysarthric individuals.
2. Methodology
Our multi-speaker TTS model is composed of three main com-
ponents: a module for generating a speaker representation from
reference audio, a backbone text-to-mel-spectrogram acoustic
model, and a vocoder that converts the mel-spectrogram into au-
dio. The backbone acoustic model adheres to the FastSpeech2
architecture [21], which consists of a text encoder, a variance
adaptor, and a decoder. To align with the objectives of multi-
speaker TTS, we integrate the speaker representation that has
been produced by the speaker encoder into the backbone TTS
text encoder and decoder as in [22]. Moreover, HiFi-GAN
is employed as the pretrained vocoder [23] for mel-to-audio
generation. Given that the ultimate goal is to achieve zero-
shot extraction and utilization of speaker representations from
dysarthric reference audio, we focus on the speaker encoder,
which is structured around two key components: knowledge
anchoring by a teacher for the student model, and curriculum
learning specifically designed for the student model (Figure 2).
2.1. Knowledge Anchoring
Unlike conventional multi-speaker TTS systems, where the ref-
erence audio input during inference remains within the same
domain as the training data, the task at hand requires effective
extraction of timbre-specific features while remaining resilient
to articulation distortions, as well as the scarcity of speaker in-
formation inherent in short audio segments at inference time.
However, attempting to simultaneously address this dual-task
objective using a single speaker encoder as in typical multi-
speaker TTS systems [24, 25, 26], is difficult. Therefore, to sim-
plify this task, we separate it by introducing two collaborative
Figure 2: Training and inference processes. During training,
the teacher model conditions the backbone TTS model while
serving as an anchor for the student model. The student model
is trained using curriculum learning.
teacher-student modules. A teacher speaker encoder initially
captures the comprehensive information from the reference au-
dio; this not only serves as an anchor for the student module to
learn from, but also as a preliminary filter that removes irrele-
vant acoustic properties. Both teacherθt and studentθs models
share an identical architecture, where the mel-spectrogram of
the input audio meli,j is passed through a speaker verification
[27] network 1 θSV that is pretrained to compute the average
embedding of each speaker. Formally, this is denoted as
ei,j =θSV (meli,j) (1)
ci = 1
M
MX
j=1
ei,j (2)
whereci is the centroid for speaker i, and ei,j denotes the
embedding of the j-th utterance from speaker i. The resulting
embeddingc∈ R256 is then used as the input to pass through a
linear projection layer, a fully connected (FC) block with Mish
activation [28], and a GLU-gated convolution stack with resid-
ual connections [29]. Another FC layer and temporal averag-
ing results in two N-dimensional speaker style vectors ˆwt =
{y1,y 2,··· ,y N} and ˆws ={x1,x 2,··· ,x N} from each of
the teacher and student modules, respectively. The following
knowledge anchoring relationship is subsequently formed:
LM AE( ˆws, ˆwt) = 1
N
NX
n=1
||xn−yn||1 (3)
2.2. Curriculum Learning (CL)
Simply training the teacher and student models as described in
the previous subsection presents two key challenges: (1) there
is no direct connection between the training and inference do-
mains, and (2) a trivial solution can emerge since both models
share the same architecture and receive identical input data. To
mitigate this, the student model is progressively trained with
shorter segments of audio compared to the teacher model, en-
forcing a non-trivial learning process. Formally, letS denote the
total number of training steps andC the number of progressive
1https://github.com/resemble-ai/Resemblyzer
2109

Algorithm 1: Multi-view Augmentation for CL
Input : AudioA, Total Training StepsS, Number of
Cropping StagesC, Current Steps
Output: Student Representation ˆws
Step 1: Compute Cropping Parameters
Define steps of each cropping stage :Sc =S/C;
Compute cropping ratios for each stage:
r =
1− 1
C+1, 1− 2
C+1, ..., 1− C
C+1

;
Step 2: Progressive Audio Cropping
stage←⌊ s
Sc
⌋;
A′←A [:r[stage]× len(A)];
return ˆws←θs(A′) ;
cropping stages applied to the input audio. The number of train-
ing steps allocated to each cropped audio stage is then given by
S
C . An overview of this multi-view audio augmentation process
is provided in Algorithm 1.
Moreover, when training the entire TTS framework, the
style representation ˆwt that is generated by the teacher model
is employed as the condition for the backbone TTS encoder and
decoder, while at inference time, the style representation gen-
erated by the student model ˆws is utilized. Conditioning is im-
plemented as in [22], where text input feature of the backbone
text encoderPtext ={p1,p 2,...,p K} of K-dimensions is fused
with style representationw using its gaing and biasb.
µ = 1
H
HX
k=1
pk ,σ =
vuut
HX
k=1
(pk−µ) (4)
N (p) = p−µ
σ (5)
Fusion (Ptext, ˆw) =g( ˆw)⊙N (p) +b( ˆw) (6)
The total loss is defined as a combination of the mel recon-
struction loss between the synthesized audio and the original
full reference audio used for the teacher model, and the loss
between the style vectors that were computed by each of the
teacher and student speaker encoders.
LT otal =LM AE( ˆmel,mel ) +LM AE( ˆws, ˆwt) (7)
3. Experimental Settings
To validate our proposed methodology, we compare its perfor-
mance against three zero-shot baseline models. The first em-
ploys discriminators trained with style prototypes and episodic
training [22]. While originally designed for normal speech,
its method was also intended to generalize to unseen speak-
ers, even those of short audio samples. On the other hand, the
second and third baselines specifically target dysarthric speech:
the former extracts a speaker representation using a pretrained
speaker verification model [30], while the latter adopts a hybrid
approach akin to [14]. In this framework, a single-speaker Fast-
Pitch [31] model generates speech corresponding to the target
input text, and then re-synthesized to match the target dysarthric
speaker’s voice using the FreeVC [32] voice conversion model.
To ensure fair comparisons, all experiments were conducted
in identical conditions. Training was performed on a single
Table 1: Comparisons with Adaptive [22], Conditional [30],
and Hybrid [31, 32] baseline models. 95% confidence intervals
are reported for MOS.
Model
Obj. Metrics Subj. Metrics
PER (↓) Spk Sim ( ↑) MOS-Nat MOS-Spk
Adaptive 64.455 0.570 2.908 ± 0.23 2.753 ± 0.24
Conditional 47.696 0.647 2.839 ± 0.20 2.906 ± 0.21
Hybrid 31.017 0.534 3.371 ± 0.15 3.731 ± 0.22
Proposed 14.254 0.619 3.601± 0.18 3.909± 0.21
Table 2: Subjective evaluations across different dysarthric
speaker intelligibility (Int.) groups.
V ery Low Int. Low Int. Middle Int. High Int.
MOS-Spk
Adaptive 2.722 3.053 3.000 3.000
Conditional 2.789 2.947 2.895 2.763
Hybrid 3.293 3.395 3.461 3.395
Proposed 3.338 3.763 3.618 3.882
MOS-Nat
Adaptive 2.789 2.711 2.789 2.697
Conditional 2.932 2.947 2.829 2.895
Hybrid 3.699 3.737 3.763 3.750
Proposed 3.692 4.066 3.869 4.171
GPU for the proposed 33M-parameter model using the Lib-
rispeech [19] dataset with multi-view audio augmentation as
described in Section 2.2. Specifically, audio cropping was con-
ducted three times over 500,000 training steps (i.e., approx-
imately every 160,000 steps). Zero-shot synthesis was con-
ducted on the UASpeech dysarthria dataset [18] and evaluated
by employing both subjective and objective metrics. MOS rat-
ings were gathered from 19 Amazon Mechanical Turk work-
ers who assessed naturalness in terms of prosodic intonation,
and vocal similarity. Moreover, objective evaluations were con-
ducted with phoneme error rate (PER), and speaker similarity,
which was computed using cosine similarity between synthe-
sized and ground truth speech representations as in prior re-
search [33].
4. Results and Discussion
4.1. Main Results
The results presented in Table 1 underscore the efficacy of the
proposed methodology in mitigating phonemic articulation er-
rors while maintaining high speaker fidelity. PER demonstrates
that the proposed methodology achieves a substantial reduction
of over 50 points compared to the Adaptive [22] baseline, and
over 15 points compared to highest performing baseline model.
Notably, this improvement of articulation accuracy does not
come at the cost of speaker similarity, as the proposed model
maintains a high speaker similarity score of 0.619, which is
comparable to or surpasses existing approaches. Additionally,
subjective evaluations reveal that the proposed method achieves
the highest perceived naturalness in terms of intonation and pro-
nunciation (MOS-Nat: 3.601) and speaker similarity (MOS-
Spk: 3.909), which reinforces its effectiveness in preserving
both articulation clarity and speaker identity.
Beyond overall performance, Table 2 provides a breakdown
of subjective evaluations across dysarthric speaker groups cate-
gorized by different intelligibility levels (Very Low, Low, Mid-
dle, and High). The proposed model consistently outperforms
other approaches in speaker similarity across all intelligibility
groups. In terms of naturalness, while the proposed model
shows marginally lower scores than that of the Hybrid model
2110

Table 3: Ablation studies on Knowledge Anchoring and Cur-
riculum Learning. ‘Stu’ denotes the student model, while ‘w/out
CL’ indicates direct training on the shortest audio inputs. CL
is applied to the student model when present; otherwise, it is
applied to the teacher model.
Model
Teacher Student
PER (↓) Spk Sim ( ↑) PER ( ↓) Spk Sim ( ↑)
w/out Stu. w/out CL 26.428 0.618 - -
w/out Stu. w/ CL 22.846 0.623 - -
w/ Stu w/out CL 21.935 0.647 15.579 0.613
w/ Stu. w/ CL 20.559 0.646 14.254 0.619
Table 4: Student-Teacher comparisons across different
dysarthric speaker groups.
Model
Teacher Student
PER (↓) Spk Sim ( ↑) PER ( ↓) Spk Sim ( ↑)
Very Low Int. 20.528 0.586 15.157 0.556
Low Int. 19.463 0.616 15.586 0.584
Middle Int. 23.314 0.643 15.243 0.610
High Int. 18.668 0.708 12.266 0.690
Average 20.559 0.646 14.254 0.619
for the Very Low category, the difference is only 0.007. More-
over, it can be seen that the proposed model surpasses the other
baseline models for all remaining intelligibility levels.
4.2. Knowledge Anchoring and CL
The importance of the knowledge anchoring framework can be
assessed by comparing models trained with and without the stu-
dent model while maintaining curriculum learning in its most
restrictive form (w/out CL in Table 3). Note that this setting
does not completely eliminate curriculum learning. Rather, it
represents a scenario in which the speaker encoder is trained
directly using the shortest audio from the multi-view augmenta-
tion process, and bypasses the gradual transition from longer to
shorter references. Under this condition, sole utilization of the
teacher model as the TTS condition yields a high phoneme error
rate (PER) of 26.428 (w/out Stu. w/out CL). However, introduc-
ing the student model (w/ Stu. w/out CL) leads to a substantial
reduction in PER to 15.579, which marks an improvement of
10.849 points. Comparable speaker similarity scores are also
retained between the teacher and student models. A plausible
explanation for these improvements is that the teacher model
truly functions as a filter, which enables the student model to fo-
cus more effectively on speaker-specific timbre attributes. Thus,
this reduces content leakage, since target timbre features do not
inadvertently blend with miscellaneous acoustic factors, which
would otherwise interfere with the target text’s pronunciation
when conditioning the backbone TTS model. These findings
highlight the necessity of distinct teacher and student learning
processes for enhancing phonemic articulation.
While the teacher-student framework alone offers substan-
tial benefits, its effectiveness is further amplified by curriculum
learning. By structuring training such that the student speaker
encoder initially learns from longer, more informative refer-
ences before adapting to shorter, more constrained inputs, this
gradual adaptation results in a PER that decreases from 26.428
(w/out Stu. w/out CL) to 22.846 (w/out Stu. w/ CL) for the
teacher-only model, and from 15.579 (w/ Stu. w/out CL) to
14.254 (w/ Stu. w/ CL) for the knowledge-anchored model.
Speaker similarity also increases from 0.613 to 0.619 for the
Figure 3: Variations of multi-view augmentation. Incrementally
shortening audio significantly reduces PER while preserving
speaker similarity comparable to the Random setting.
student speaker encoder. To further analyze model performance
across dysarthric speaker groups, Table 4 presents results strati-
fied by intelligibility level. A clear trend emerges; both teacher
and student models achieve lower PER and higher speaker sim-
ilarity as intelligibility increases. When using the teacher model
to condition the backbone TTS, PER decreases from 20.528
(Very Low Intelligibility) to 18.668 (High Intelligibility), with
speaker similarity improving from 0.586 to 0.708. Similarly, the
student model’s PER drops from 15.157 to 12.266, with speaker
similarity rising from 0.556 to 0.690. Notably, across all intelli-
gibility levels, the student model consistently yields the lowest
articulation errors. These results aligns well with the funda-
mental goal of speech synthesis, which is to foremost produce
speech with accurate pronunciation. These trends are also intu-
itive, as higher intelligibility speakers exhibit fewer articulation
distortions that obscure speaker-specific characteristics, which
in turn leads to easier timbre extraction by the speaker encoder.
4.3. Multi-view Audio Augmentation for CL
In the proposed approach, the student model is trained using
progressively shorter audio inputs to facilitate structured adap-
tation. To evaluate the efficacy of this augmentation strategy, we
conduct an additional experiment using a randomized setting,
where input audio utilized for the student speaker encoder is
randomly cropped at each training step using one of the prede-
fined cropping ratios. As shown in Figure 3, the proposed pro-
gressive strategy leads to a substantial reduction in PER while
preserving speaker similarity. Although the randomized setting
exhibits a marginal increase in speaker similarity of 0.003, this
is likely attributable to the greater proportion of longer audio
inputs encountered during training compared to the structured
progressive setting that was originally utilized.
5. Conclusion
In this paper, we present a zero-shot multi-speaker TTS ap-
proach to enhance personalized communication for dysarthric
speakers. Unlike conventional single-encoder models, we in-
troduce a knowledge anchoring framework with dual speaker
encoders. Additionally, multiple views of the input reference
audio is constructed and employed incrementally for curricu-
lum learning. This approach effectively addresses the dual chal-
lenge of mitigating articulation artifacts while extracting robust
speaker representations from minimal speech input. Compre-
hensive evaluations confirm that the synthesized speech remains
highly intelligible, natural, and speaker-consistent.
2111

6. Acknowledgements
This research was supported by Smart HealthCare for Police
Officers Program(www.kipot.or.kr) through the Korea Insti-
tutes of Police Technology(KIPoT) funded by the Korean Na-
tional Police Agency(KNPA, Korea)(No. RS-2022-PT000186;
47.5%), by the IITP(Institute of Information & Coummuni-
cations Technology Planning & Evaluation)-ITRC(Information
Technology Research Center) grant funded by the Korea gov-
ernment(Ministry of Science and ICT)(IITP-2025-RS-2024-
00437866; 47.5%), and by Institute of Information & communi-
cations Technology Planning & Evaluation (IITP) grant funded
by the Korea government(MSIT) (No.RS-2019-II191906, Arti-
ficial Intelligence Graduate School Program(POSTECH); 5%).
7. References
[1] D. Mulfari, G. Meoni, M. Marini, and L. Fanucci, “Machine learn-
ing assistive application for users with speech disorders,” in Ap-
plied Soft Computing, 2021.
[2] F. Darley, A. E. Aronson, and J. R. Brown, “Differential diag-
nostic patterns of dysarthria,” in Journal of Speech and Hearing
Research, 1969.
[3] Y . Yunusova, G. Weismer, J. R. Westbury, and M. J. Lind-
strom, “Articulatory movements during vowels in speakers with
dysarthria and healthy controls,” in Journal of Speech and Hear-
ing Research, 2021.
[4] J. Mertl, E. ˘Z´a˘ckov´a, and B. ˘Repov´a, “Quality of life of patients
after total laryngectomy: the struggle against stigmatization and
social exclusion using speech synthesis,” inDisabil Rehabil Assist
Technol., 2018.
[5] S. Leivaditi, T. Matsushima, M. Coler, S. Nayak, and V . Verkho-
danova, “Fine-Tuning Strategies for Dutch Dysarthric Speech
Recognition: Evaluating the Impact of Healthy, Disease-Specific,
and Speaker-Specific Data,” in Interspeech, 2024.
[6] I.-T. Hsieh and C.-H. Wu, “Dysarthric Speech Recognition Us-
ing Curriculum Learning and Articulatory Feature Embedding,”
in Interspeech, 2024.
[7] S. Wang, S. Zhao, J. Zhou, A. Kong, and Y . Qin, “Enhanc-
ing Dysarthric Speech Recognition for Unseen Speakers via
Prototype-Based Adaptation,” in Interspeech, 2024.
[8] W.-Z. Leung, M. Cross, A. Ragni, and S. Goetze, “Training Data
Augmentation for Dysarthric Automatic Speech Recognition by
Text-to-Dysarthric-Speech Synthesis,” inInterspeech, 2024.
[9] C. Veaux, J. Yamagishi, and S. King, “Using HMM-based Speech
Synthesis to Reconstruct the V oice of Individuals with Degenera-
tive Speech Disorders,” in Interspeech, 2024.
[10] S. Creer, S. Cunningham, P. Green, and J. Yamagishi, “Building
personalised synthetic voices for individuals with severe speech
impairment,” in Computer Speech & Language, 2013.
[11] Y . Wang, X. Wu, D. Wang, L. Meng, and H. Meng, “UNIT-
DSR: Dysarthric Speech Reconstruction System Using Speech
Unit Normalization,” in ICASSP, 2024.
[12] H. T. Bunnell, J. Lilley, C. Pennington, B. Moyers, and J. Polikoff,
“The ModelTalker System,” inThe Blizzard Challenge, 2010.
[13] J. Yamagishi, C. Veaux, S. King, and S. Renals, “Speech synthesis
technologies for individuals with vocal disabilities: V oice banking
and reconstruction,” in Acoustical Science and Technology, 2012.
[14] K. Matsubara, T. Okamoto, R. Takashima, T. Takiguchi,
T. Toda, and Y . Shiga, “High-Intelligibility Speech Synthesis for
Dysarthric Speakers with LPCNet-Based TTS and CycleV AE-
Based VC,” in ICASSP, 2021.
[15] R. Nanzaka and T. Takiguchi, “Hybrid Text-to-Speech for Artic-
ulation Disorders with a Small Amount of Non-Parallel Data,” in
APSIPS Annual Summit and Conference, 2018.
[16] Y . Jeon, Y . Kim, and G. G. Lee, “Enhancing Zero-Shot Multi-
Speaker TTS with Negated Speaker Representations,” inProceed-
ings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2024.
[17] B. J. Choi, M. Jeong, J. Y . Lee, and N. S. Kim, “SNAC: Speaker-
Normalized Affine Coupling Layer in Flow-Based Architecture
for Zero-Shot Multi-Speaker Text-to-Speech,” in IEEE Signal
Processing Letters, 2023.
[18] H. Kim, M. Hasegawa-Johnson, drienne Perlman, J. Gunderson,
T. Huang, K. Watkin, and S. Frame, “Dysarthric Speech Database
for Universal Access Research,” in Interspeech, 2008.
[19] H. Zen, V . Dang, R. Clark, Y . Zhang, R. J. Weiss, Y . Jia, Z. Chen,
, and Y . Wum, “LibriTTS: A Corpus Derived from LibriSpeech
for Text-to-Speech,” inInterspeech, 2019.
[20] K. Ito and L. Johnson, “The LJ Speech Dataset,” in https://
keithito.com/LJ-Speech-Dataset/ , 2017.
[21] Y . Ren, Y . Ruan, X. Tan, T. Qin, S. Zhao, Z. Zhao, and T.-Y . Liu,
“FastSpeech: Fast, Robust and Controllable Text to Speech,” in
NeurIPS, 2019.
[22] D. Min, D. B. Lee, E. Yang, and S. J. Hwang, “Meta-stylespeech
: Multi-speaker adaptive text-to-speech generation,” in Interna-
tional Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2021.
[23] J. Kong, J. Kim, and J. Bae, “HiFi-GAN: Generative Adversarial
Networks for Efficient and High FIdelity Speech Synthesis,” in
NeurIPS, 2020.
[24] N. Kumar and A. N. andBrejesh Lall, “Zero-Shot Normalization
Driven Multi-Speaker Text to Speech Synthesis,” in IEEE/ACM
Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, 2022.
[25] E. Casanova, J. Weber, C. Shulby, A. C. Junior, E. G ´’olge, and
M. A. Ponti, “YourTTS: Towards Zero-Shot Multi-Speaker TTS
and Zero-Shot V oice Conversion for Everyone,” inProceedings of
Machine Learning Research, 2022.
[26] E. Cooper, C.-I. Lai, Y . Yasuda, F. Fang, X. Wang, and N. Chen,
“Zero-Shot Multi-Speaker Text-To-Speech with State-Of-The-Art
Neural Speaker Embeddings,” in ICASSP, 2020.
[27] L. Wan, Q. Wang, A. Papir, and I. L. Moreno, “Generalized End-
to-End Loss for Speaker Verification,” inICASSP, 2018.
[28] D. Misra, “Mish: A Self Regularized Non-Monotonic Activation
Function,” in BMVC, 2020.
[29] Y . N. Dauphin, A. Fan, M. Auli, and D. Grangier, “Language
Modeling with Gated Convolutional Networks,” inProceedings of
the 34th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML ,
2017.
[30] K. Azizah, “Zero-Shot V oice Cloning Text-to-Speech for Dyspho-
nia Disorder Speakers,” IEEE Access, vol. 12, pp. 63 528–63 547,
2024.
[31] A. Ła ´ncucki, “FastPitch: Parallel Text-to-speech with Pitch Pre-
diction,” in ICASSP, 2021.
[32] J. Lii, W. Tu, and L. Xiao, “Freevc: Towards High-Quality Text-
Free One-Shot V oice Conversion,” inICASSP, 2023.
[33] Y . Zhou1, C. Song, X. Li, L. Zhang, Z. Wu, Y . Bian, D. Su, and
H. Meng, “Content-Dependent Fine-Grained Speaker Embedding
for Zero-Shot Speaker Adaptation in Text-to-Speech Synthesis,”
in Interspeech, 2022.
2112
