warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
LinearVC: Linear transformations of self-supervised features
through the lens of voice conversion
Herman Kamper1, Benjamin van Niekerk1, Julian Za¨ıdi2, Marc-Andr´e Carbonneau2
1Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Stellenbosch University, South Africa
2Ubisoft La Forge, Montreal, Canada
kamperh@sun.ac.za
Abstract
We introduce LinearVC, a simple voice conversion method
that sheds light on the structure of self-supervised represen-
tations. First, we show that simple linear transformations of
self-supervised features effectively convert voices. Next, we
probe the geometry of the feature space by constraining the set
of allowed transformations. We find that just rotating the features
is sufficient for high-quality voice conversion. This suggests that
content information is embedded in a low-dimensional subspace
which can be linearly transformed to produce a target voice.
To validate this hypothesis, we finally propose a method that
explicitly factorizes content and speaker information using sin-
gular value decomposition; the resulting linear projection with
a rank of just 100 gives competitive conversion results. Our
work has implications for both practical voice conversion and a
broader understanding of self-supervised speech representations.
Samples and code: https://www.kamperh.com/linearvc/.
Index Terms:
voice conversion,
disentanglement,
self-
supervised learning, feature geometry
1. Introduction
Voice conversion aims to alter input speech to mimic a target
speaker’s voice [1,2]. It has applications in entertainment [3],
language tutoring [4], accessible speech processing [5–7], and
anonymization [8]. This wide range of applications has naturally
led to diverse solutions. Some systems leverage large spoken
language models, prompting them to generate speech in a de-
sired voice [9, 10], while others rely on speaker embeddings
as a conditioning signal [11,12]. Recent studies have achieved
competitive results by applying simple methods, such as nearest
neighbours, on top of self-supervised learned (SSL) representa-
tions [6,13–15]. The success of these simple voice conversion
systems stems directly from the internal structure of the SSL
features used. But we still only have a cursory understanding of
how SSL models organize content and speaker information.
In this paper we propose LinearVC, a simple method that
also gives new insights into the structure of SSL features. The
method uses features from an intermediate layer of WavLM [16],
an established SSL system. Encoded source and target frames are
paired using nearest neighbours to form a training set. A linear
projection is then learned between source and target frames. At
inference, source speech is linearly projected and then vocoded
using a pretrained vocoder, yielding the converted waveform.
This approach is heavily inspired by k-nearest neighbours voice
conversion (kNN-VC) [14]. Here we replace kNN-VC’s non-
linear nearest neighbour mapping with a linear transformation.
We start by showing that LinearVC gives comparable perfor-
mance to state-of-the-art systems such as kNN-VC and Sound-
Storm [10]. This finding—that a linear mapping can convert
voices—suggests that SSL features implicitly disentangle pho-
netic and speaker identity information. This aligns with [17,18],
which showed that phonetic and speaker information is encoded
in orthogonal directions in SSL representations. To further in-
vestigate how the SSL space is organized, we constrain the types
of linear transformations allowed. With just rotation and reflec-
tion, high-quality voice conversion is possible, suggesting that
phonetic information resides in a lower-dimensional subspace
that is maintained from one speaker to another.
To show this conclusively, we finally propose a method that
explicitly factorizes content and speaker information. We use
singular value decomposition to find a content representation
that is shared across speakers, together with a set of speaker-
specific linear transformations. For voice conversion, new input
is projected into the common content space and then projected
out to the desired speaker—a version of LinearVC with a low-
rank linear projection. We find that phonetic content can be
encoded with a rank as low as 16, but voice conversion is poor.
When we increase the rank to around 100, content and speaker
information are retained, yielding competitive conversion results.
Many studies have examined how information is encoded
across the different layers of SSL models [19, 20]. Our work
shows how SSL models also encode different types of infor-
mation in different subspaces within the same layer. Addition-
ally, it complements work on orthogonality in SSL representa-
tions [17,18], offering deeper insights into the geometry of the
SSL space. Finally, our findings help explain the success of
SSL-based voice conversion methods such as [6,13–15,21,22].
LinearVC is therefore a straightforward method that not only
achieves strong voice conversion results but also provides new
insights into the structure and use of SSL representations.
2. LinearVC
The LinearVC framework is illustrated in Figure 1. During train-
ing (top), a linear transformation from a source to a target speaker
is learned. Utterances are first encoded into D-dimensional fea-
ture frames using a large SSL speech model, like WavLM [16].
Then, for each of the N source frames, we find the closest neigh-
bour from the set of M target frames. The source frames are
arranged in a matrix X ∈RN×D and the corresponding target
frames in a matrix Y ∈RN×D. We then find a projection matrix
W by solving the multivariate linear regression problem:
arg min
W
∥Y −XW∥2
F
(1)
where ∥·∥F is the Frobenius norm. At inference time (Figure 1-
bottom), each frame in a source utterance Xsrc is linearly pro-
jected to get the converted output Xtgt = XsrcW. A pre-trained
vocoder (we use HiFiGAN [23]) produces the final speech wave-
form from the projected frames.
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
1398
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-438

WavLM
HiFi-GAN
Xsrc
xt
Xtgt
W⊤xt
Output utterance
×
Inference:
Source input utterance
WavLM
Learning:
Source speech
X
Nearest
neighbour
Y
WavLM
Y ≈XW
Linear regression
Target speech
SSL model
Vocoder
Figure 1: LinearVC: At learning time (top), source speech frames are paired with target frames by finding their single nearest neighbours.
A projection matrix is learned by finding the least squares solution for mapping from source to target frames. At inference time (bottom),
frames from an unseen source utterance are linearly projected and then vocoded to get speech in the target speaker’s voice.
The intuition behind this approach is that phonetic informa-
tion is structured in the SSL space in a way that is common to
all speakers; if such a phonetic subspace exists, then projecting
these into different locations in the space should alter voice char-
acteristics while maintaining content. Support for our intuition
comes from [24], for instance, which showed that acoustic-to-
articulation models can be transferred between speakers using
a linear transformation, and [15], which improved an optimal
transport-based voice conversion approach using linear interpo-
lations between latent source and target representations.
In the next section, we confirm our hypothesis that learned
linear transformations of SSL features can convert voices.
3. Voice conversion experiments
We compare LinearVC to three state-of-the-art voice conversion
methods, demonstrating its effectiveness despite its simplicity.
3.1. Experimental setup
Data. Experiments are performed on the English Libri-
Speech corpus [25]. We perform development experiments on
the dev-clean subset and report final scores on the test-clean
subset. Each subset has speech from 40 speakers. For learning
LinearVC’s projection matrix and for conditioning kNN-VC, we
use 2.7 minutes of audio from each speaker. For evaluations, we
sample five utterances from each of the speakers. The evaluation
utterances do not overlap with the reference data.
LinearVC implementation. LinearVC operates on features
from the sixth layer of WavLM-Large [16], giving frames with
a dimensionality of D = 1024 every 20 ms for 16 kHz input.
We chose WavLM based on its performance in [26,27] and use
layer six based on [14]. In development experiments, we consid-
ered different configurations for LinearVC’s matching step (Fig-
ure 1-top) and found that a single nearest neighbour with cosine
distance worked best. For vocoding, we use a universal HiFi-
GAN [23] operating on WavLM features; it is trained on Lib-
riSpeech train-clean-100 using the hyperparameters from [23]
with the data augmentation strategy from [14].
Systems we compare to. We compare LinearVC to three
existing voice conversion systems. The first is kNN-VC [14].
Similar to LinearVC’s learning phase, kNN-VC maps each frame
in a source utterance to its nearest neighbour in target speech
data; the mapped frames are then directly fed to a neural vocoder.
Second is FreeVC, which uses a variational autoencoder with
data augmentation to discard speaker information [28]. Third,
we use SoundStorm [10], a representative large spoken language
model. It is a non-autoregressive transformer which can be
conditioned using a prompt of a few seconds from the target
speaker. We use our own SoundStorm implementation, trained
on 60k hours from LibriLight [29], excluding the evaluation data.
Objective evaluations. Each evaluation utterance is con-
verted to all speakers other than the source, giving an evalu-
ation based on 7800 conversions per model. As in [30], we
measure intelligibility by computing the word/character error
rate (W/CER) between the output of a speech recognition system
(Whisper-small [31]) applied to the converted speech and the
ground truth transcriptions. Lower W/CER indicates better in-
telligibility. To measure speaker similarity, we use the approach
from [32], where a speaker verification system [33] must discrim-
inate between real and converted speech from a target speaker. A
higher equal error rate (EER) corresponds to a better VC system,
with 50% indicating conversions that fool the verifier perfectly.
Subjective evaluations.
We evaluate naturalness and
speaker similarity using MUSHRA-like listening tests [34]. Eval-
uation utterances of roughly five seconds are converted to ten
target speakers, half matching the gender of the source and half
being cross-gender. Each conversion is evaluated by at least
15 raters, after excluding cases where low-quality anchors are
rated above other stimuli. To evaluate speaker similarity, raters
compare converted utterances to a real reference utterance from
the target speaker; the source utterance is used as a low anchor.
For naturalness, there is no reference, and a degraded synthe-
sized utterance gives a low anchor. We report mean scores with
95% confidence intervals. Following [35], we use the Fried-
man test [36] to determine whether at least one system differs
significantly from the others. For cases that differ, we perform
pairwise comparisons using Wilcoxon signed-rank tests [37]
with Bonferroni correction.
3.2. Voice conversion results
Table 1 presents objective and subjective voice conversion re-
sults on LibriSpeech test-clean. All systems produce intelligi-
ble output, with low W/CERs approaching that of ground truth
speech. LinearVC performs comparably to SoundStorm and
kNN-VC, with no statistically significant differences in natu-
1399

Translation using a bias vector
Orthogonal projection matrix
Unconstrained linear projection
translate
reflect
rotate
reflect
rotate
scale
shear
[a]
[I]
[a]
[I]
Figure 2: A cartoon illustration of the effects of different linear transformations on the representation space. The dark and light blobs
respectively represent where features from two distinct speakers are situated in the SSL space.
Table 1: Intelligibility (W/CER), naturalness, and speaker simi-
larity (EER, similarity) results (%) on LibriSpeech test-clean.
Model
WER↓
CER↓
EER↑
Natural↑
Similarity↑
Ground truth
4.3
2.3
-
-
-
kNN-VC [14]
5.7
2.9
38.9
60.6±3.6
67.2±2.7
FreeVC [28]
5.7
3.0
10.5
71.1±3.6
48.7±2.9
SoundStorm [10]
4.6
2.4
30.2
58.6±4.0
68.6±3.2
LinearVC
4.9
2.6
33.6
62.5±3.5
67.5±2.6
LinearVC factor.
4.7
2.5
35.2
62.3±3.7
64.2±3.1
ralness or speaker similarity (confirmed through significance
tests). In contrast, FreeVC achieves significantly higher natural-
ness, but at the cost of a significantly lower speaker similarity,
as reflected in both the subjective evaluation and the EER of
10.5%. Interestingly, EER only gives a coarse correspondence
with perceived speaker similarity, so small differences in EER
should be taken with a grain of salt.
In short, using a single linear projection, the proposed Lin-
earVC system achieves voice conversion with a good compro-
mise between intelligibility, naturalness, and speaker similarity.
This indicates that SSL features implicitly disentangle phonetic
information from speaker identity. We further validate this in
the next sections, and then introduce a factorized version of
LinearVC that explicitly disentangles content from speaker iden-
tity through low-rank factorization. (Results for this factorized
system are already given in the last row of Table 1.)
4. Further analysis: Constrained linear
transformations
We now constrain the type of transformation in LinearVC to gain
insights into the organization of the SSL representation space.
Figure 2 gives a cartoon illustration of the different configura-
tions. First, we exclusively use a bias vector, allowing only for
translation. Then, W is constrained to be orthogonal, allowing
only for rotations and reflections. In this case, W in (1) is found
using [38] to solve the orthogonal Procrustes problem. Finally,
no constraints are placed on W: we can have translation, rota-
tion, reflection, scaling, and shearing. This is what we have done
so far, except that up to this point we did not include a bias (so
no translations were used in the experiments in Section 3).
Table 2 gives results on LibriSpeech dev-clean. Regardless
of the transformation, intelligibility (W/CER) is maintained, i.e.
phonetic content is preserved. This is evidence of a phonetic
subspace structure shared across speakers, supporting the (some-
times implicit) hypothesis in other work [17,21] that SSL models
internally disentangle phonetic content from speaker identity.
The results from a simple translation (row 2) are surprising: lis-
Table 2: Intelligibility (W/CER) and speaker similarity (EER)
results (%) for different linear transformations on dev-clean.
Model
WER↓
CER↓
EER↑
1
Ground truth
4.1
2.1
-
2
Bias only
5.0
2.9
7.7
3
Orthogonal
5.1
2.9
27.7
4
Orthogonal with bias
5.0
2.9
28.3
5
No constraints
5.4
3.2
31.8
6
No constraints with bias
5.5
3.2
31.8
tening to samples reveals that the voice changes considerably
while intelligibility is maintained (low W/CER). Although the
voice changes, it does not mimic the target well (low EER). But
the EER still gets close to the FreeVC baseline in Table 1, simply
through translation in the SSL space.
Allowing for rotation and reflection (rows 3 and 4) greatly
improves speaker similarity (high EER). Adding scaling and
shearing (rows 5 and 6) provide further boosts—but these are
minimal. Adding a bias (rows 4 and 6) also does not greatly
affect performance. It appears, then, that rotations and reflections
around the origin are the main contributors to the competitive
voice conversion performance of LinearVC. This again supports
the hypothesis that content and speaker is captured in different
subspaces—this is what allows us to alter the voice without
changing content through linear manipulations.
Before more formally showing that a common phonetic
structure can be extracted, we qualitatively look at projection
matrices to see if we can observe any commonalities. Figure 3
shows unconstrained projection matrices, both for the same
speaker pair but using different samples to estimate the ma-
trices (top row) and between completely different speaker pairs
(bottom row). To enhance matrix readability, a threshold was
applied and absolute values binarized. Regardless of the exact
samples used to learn W (top row), or the speaker pairs involved
(bottom row), we see commonalities. E.g. the linear transforma-
tions consistently modify dimensions 35 and 148 using values
from all the other dimensions. Since the result of the transforma-
tions is only a change in voice and not in content, we know that
these modifications cause movement in the speaker subspace.
5. Factorizing out a shared content subspace
The experiments in the previous section support the hypothe-
sis that content information is embedded in a low-dimensional
subspace, which can be linearly transformed to produce a target
voice. In this section, we validate this interpretation by explicitly
disentangling content and speaker information. Specifically, we
factorize the SSL features into a content representation shared
1400

0
100
200
1272 to 1462 (a)
1272 to 1462 (b)
0 35
100148 200
0
100
200
1272 to 1673
0 35
100148 200
8842 to 8297
Figure 3: Projection matrices for different speaker pairs. Top
row: Same speaker pair, but using different speech subsets (a)
and (b) for learning. Matrices are thresholded and binarized,
and only the first 256 dimensions (out of 1024) are shown.
across all speakers and a set of speaker-specific transformations.
The approach shares the spirit of very recent parallel work [39].
5.1. LinearVC with content factorization
First, we extract self-supervised features for K distinct speakers.
Then, we choose a single source speaker and find matching
feature vectors from the other speakers using nearest neighbours.
We arrange these features into matrices Xk ∈RN×D, one for
each speaker. At this point, we have the same content spoken
by different speakers. Next, we solve an optimization problem
to factorize X1, . . . , XK into the product of a shared content
representation C and a speaker-specific transformation Sk:
min
C,Sk
K
X
k=1
∥Xk −CSk∥2
F
subject to
rank(CSk) ≤r
where r is a hyperparameter constraining the rank of the fac-
torization. We can rewrite this problem by concatenating the
matrices Xk along their feature dimensions, giving:
min
C,S ∥X −CS∥2
F
subject to
rank(CS) ≤r
where X ∈RN×KD and S ∈Rr×KD are the resulting block
matrices.1 We can solve this problem through a singular value de-
composition of the block matrix X. Concretely, we approximate
each Xk as UΣSk, where U ∈RN×r is an orthogonal matrix,
Σ ∈Rr×r is a diagonal matrix of the r largest singular values,
and Sk ∈Rr×D is the corresponding block of right-singular
vectors of X. The product UΣ represents the shared content C,
and each Sk is a speaker-specific linear transformation.
To perform conversion given this factorization, we project a
source utterance Xsrc to the content subspace, and then apply the
target speaker transformation. Since Xsrc ≈CSsrc, we can mul-
tiply by the pseudoinverse of the source speaker transformation
S+
src to project to the content subspace: XsrcS+
src ≈C. Then we
1This is only strictly true if there are at least r non-zero eigenvalues.
024
100
200
Rank
2
4
6
8
10
CER (%) <-
0
100
200
Rank
0
10
20
30
EER (%) ->
Figure 4: Intelligibility (CER) and speaker similarity (EER) on
dev-clean as a function of rank when using content factorization.
apply the target speaker transformation to convert to the desired
speaker’s voice:
Xtgt = XsrcS+
srcStgt
The S+
srcStgt term functions like the projection matrix W of the
non-factorized LinearVC. The difference here is that we can
explicitly set the transformation’s rank r.
5.2. Voice conversion results
To evaluate this approach, we use the same experimental setup
as in Section 3.1, with the same data setup as for LinearVC.
First, we investigate the effect of rank on the voice conver-
sion quality. Figure 4 plots intelligibility (CER) and speaker
similarity (EER) as we vary the factorization’s rank. The CER
plot shows that content can be represented with a low rank: a
CER of less than 4% is achieved with just 16 dimensions, with
the best intelligibility achieved at a rank of 24. This demonstrates
that we can significantly compress the representation before de-
grading intelligibility, supporting our hypothesis that content
information lies along a low-dimensional subspace. The right
panel shows that EER (objective speaker similarity) increases
with rank, suggesting that more parameters are required to model
the speaker transformations. However, increasing the rank above
200 reduces EER, likely because some source speaker informa-
tion leaks into the content representation.
Finally, we compare content factorization to the other sys-
tems in Table 1. Based on Figure 4, we set the rank to r = 100
as a compromise between intelligibility and speaker similarity.
Overall, our factorization method performs on par with the other
approaches, with no statistically significant difference between
the two variants of LinearVC. These results show that the factor-
ization effectively disentangles speaker and content information.
6. Conclusion
We introduced LinearVC, a simple yet effective method for
voice conversion that uses a linear projection of SSL speech
representations. In addition to providing a practical solution to
voice conversion without requiring complex model training, it
offers valuable insights into the organization of SSL features.
Our experiments revealed that phonetic and speaker identity in-
formation reside in distinct subspaces, and that simple linear
transformations within these subspaces suffice for high-quality
voice conversion. Based on this, we proposed a new low-rank
factorization approach for separating out common phonetic con-
tent from speaker identity information. Future work may extend
our analyses to more SSL models (other than WavLM), and ex-
plore applications in other tasks such as speech anonymization
and phonetic content extraction.
1401

7. References
[1] S. H. Mohammadi and A. Kain, “An overview of voice conversion
systems,” Speech Communication, 2017.
[2] B. Sisman, J. Yamagishi, S. King, and H. Li, “An overview of
voice conversion and its challenges: From statistical modeling to
deep learning,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and
Language Processing, 2020.
[3] Disney, “Making of Season 2 finale,” Disney Gallery: The Man-
dalorian, 2021.
[4] H. Geng, D. Saito, and N. Minematsu, “A pilot study of applying
sequence-to-sequence voice conversion to evaluate the intelligibil-
ity of L2 speech using a native speaker’s shadowings,” in APSIPA
ASC, 2024.
[5] G. Singer, “Respeecher gives voice to Michael York in healthcare
initiative,” Respeecher Blog, 2021.
[6] M. Baas and H. Kamper, “Voice conversion for stuttered speech,
instruments, unseen languages and textually described voices,”
Communications in Computer and Information Science, 2023.
[7] K. E. Hajal, E. Hermann, A. Kulkarni, and M. Magimai.-Doss,
“Unsupervised rhythm and voice conversion of dysarthric to healthy
speech for ASR,” in SPADE, 2025.
[8] M. Panariello, N. Tomashenko, X. Wang, X. Miao, P. Champion,
H. Nourtel, M. Todisco, N. Evans, E. Vincent, and J. Yamagishi,
“The VoicePrivacy 2022 Challenge: Progress and perspectives in
voice anonymisation,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech,
and Language Processing, 2024.
[9] B. Han, L. Zhou, S. Liu, S. Chen, L. Meng, Y. Qian, Y. Liu,
S. Zhao, J. Li, and F. Wei, “VALL-E R: Robust and efficient zero-
shot text-to-speech synthesis via monotonic alignment,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2406.07855, 2024.
[10] Z. Borsos, M. Sharifi, D. Vincent, E. Kharitonov, N. Zeghidour, and
M. Tagliasacchi, “SoundStorm: Efficient parallel audio generation,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.09636, 2023.
[11] H. Guo, C. Liu, C. T. Ishi, and H. Ishiguro, “QuickVC: Any-to-
many voice conversion using inverse short-time fourier transform
for faster conversion,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.08296, 2023.
[12] Y. Yang, Y. Kartynnik, Y. Li, J. Tang, X. Li, G. Sung, and M. Grund-
mann, “StreamVC: Real-time low-latency voice conversion,” in
ICASSP, 2024.
[13] Y. Y. Lin, C.-M. Chien, J.-H. Lin, H.-y. Lee, and L.-s. Lee, “Frag-
mentVC: Any-to-any voice conversion by end-to-end extracting
and fusing fine-grained voice fragments with attention,” in ICASSP,
2021.
[14] M. Baas, B. van Niekerk, and H. Kamper, “Voice conversion with
just nearest neighbors,” in Interspeech, 2023.
[15] A. Asadulaev, R. Korst, V. Shutov, A. Korotin, Y. Grebnyak,
V. Egiazarian, and E. Burnaev, “Optimal transport maps are good
voice converters,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.02402, 2024.
[16] S. Chen, C. Wang, Z. Chen, Y. Wu, S. Liu, Z. Chen, J. Li, N. Kanda,
T. Yoshioka, X. Xiao, J. Wu, L. Zhou, S. Ren, Y. Qian, Y. Qian,
J. Wu, M. Zeng, X. Yu, , and F. Wei, “WavLM: Large-scale self-
supervised pre-training for full stack speech processing,” IEEE
Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing, 2022.
[17] O. D. Liu, H. Tang, and S. Goldwater, “Self-supervised predic-
tive coding models encode speaker and phonetic information in
orthogonal subspaces,” in Interspeech, 2023.
[18] M. Mohamed, O. D. Liu, H. Tang, and S. Goldwater, “Orthogo-
nality and isotropy of speaker and phonetic information in self-
supervised speech representations,” in Interspeech, 2024.
[19] A. Pasad, J.-C. Chou, and K. Livescu, “Layer-wise analysis of a
self-supervised speech representation model,” in ASRU, 2021.
[20] P. Mousavi, J. Duret, S. Zaiem, L. D. Libera, A. Ploujnikov, C. Sub-
akan, and M. Ravanelli, “How should we extract discrete audio
tokens from self-supervised models?” in Interspeech, 2024.
[21] B. van Niekerk, M.-A. Carbonneau, J. Za¨ıdi, M. Baas, H. Seut´e,
and H. Kamper, “A comparison of discrete and soft speech units
for improved voice conversion,” in ICASSP, 2022.
[22] S. Shan, Y. Li, A. Banerjee, and J. B. Oliva, “Phoneme hallucinator:
One-shot voice conversion via set expansion,” in AAAI, 2024.
[23] J. Kong, J. Kim, and J. Bae, “HiFi-GAN: Generative adversar-
ial networks for efficient and high fidelity speech synthesis,” in
NeurIPS, 2020.
[24] C. J. Cho, A. Mohamed, A. W. Black, and G. K. Anumanchipalli,
“Self-supervised models of speech infer universal articulatory kine-
matics,” in ICASSP, 2024.
[25] V. Panayotov, G. Chen, D. Povey, and S. Khudanpur, “LibriSpeech:
An ASR corpus based on public domain audio books,” in ICASSP,
2015.
[26] A. Pasad, B. Shi, and K. Livescu, “Comparative layer-wise analysis
of self-supervised speech models,” in ICASSP, 2023.
[27] P. Mousavi, L. Della Libera, J. Duret, A. Ploujnikov, C. Subakan,
and M. Ravanelli, “DASB – Discrete audio and speech benchmark,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.14294, 2024.
[28] J. Li, W. Tu, and L. Xiao, “FreeVC: Towards high-quality text-free
one-shot voice conversion,” in ICASSP, 2023.
[29] J. Kahn, M. Rivi`ere, W. Zheng, E. Kharitonov, Q. Xu, P. E. Mazar´e,
J. Karadayi, V. Liptchinsky, R. Collobert, C. Fuegen, T. Likhoma-
nenko, G. Synnaeve, A. Joulin, A. Mohamed, and E. Dupoux,
“Libri-Light: A benchmark for ASR with limited or no supervision,”
in ICASSP, 2020.
[30] Z. Yi, W.-C. Huang, X. Tian, J. Yamagishi, R. K. Das, T. Kin-
nunen, Z.-H. Ling, and T. Toda, “Voice Conversion Challenge
2020: Intra-lingual semi-parallel and cross-lingual voice conver-
sion,” in VCCBC, 2020.
[31] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak su-
pervision,” in ICML, 2023.
[32] R. K. Das, T. Kinnunen, W.-C. Huang, Z.-H. Ling, J. Yamagishi,
Z. Yi, X. Tian, and T. Toda, “Predictions of subjective ratings
and spoofing assessments of Voice Conversion Challenge 2020
submissions,” in VCCBC, 2020.
[33] D. Snyder, D. Garcia-Romero, G. Sell, D. Povey, and S. Khudanpur,
“X-vectors: Robust DNN embeddings for speaker recognition,” in
ICASSP, 2018.
[34] International Telecommunication Union, “Method for the subjec-
tive assessment of intermediate quality level of audio systems,”
2015.
[35] C. Mendonc¸a and S. Delikaris-Manias, “Statistical tests with
MUSHRA data,” in Audio Engineering Society International Con-
vention, 2018.
[36] M. Friedman, “The use of ranks to avoid the assumption of normal-
ity implicit in the analysis of variance,” Journal of the American
Statistical Association, 1937.
[37] F. Wilcoxon, “Individual comparisons by ranking methods,” Bio-
metrics Bulletin, 1945.
[38] P. H. Sch¨onemann, “A generalized solution of the orthogonal Pro-
crustes problem,” Psychometrika, 1966.
[39] G. Ruggiero, M. Testa, J. Van de Walle, and L. Di Caro, “Eta-
WavLM: Efficient speaker identity removal in self-supervised
speech representations using a simple linear equation,” in ACL,
2025.
1402

