Pick and Summarize: Integrating Extractive and Abstractive Speech
Summarization
Takatomo Kano1, Atsunori Ogawa1, Marc Delcroix1, Ryo Fukuda1, William Chen2, Shinji
Watanabe2
1NTT inc., Japan
2Carnegie Mellon University, USA
{takatomo.kanou, atsunori.ogawa,delcroix.marc}@ntt.com
Abstract
Speech summarization condenses long speech while preserving
essential content. Recently, there has been growing interest in
end-to-end (E2E) abstractive speech summarization, which di-
rectly generates a text summary from spoken input. However,
abstractive summarization of lengthy speech sequences presents
challenges, such as identifying key information within very
long speech. In this paper, we hypothesize that first addressing
the simpler task of extractive summarization can help with these
aforementioned long-sequence challenges and improve over-
all summarization performance. To this end, we introduce an
extractive-abstractive summarization model that exploits auxil-
iary information from extractive summaries generated directly
from raw speech input to enhance abstractive speech summa-
rization. Experiments on a web presentation corpus demon-
strate consistent gains with our proposed method, achieving up
to 1.4-point gains in METEOR score over a strong abstractive
summarization baseline.
Index Terms: speech summarization, abstractive, extractive,
multi-task learning
1. Introduction
Speech summarization aims to condense very long speech in-
put into a concise summary that preserves essential content and
key highlights [1]. Summarization approaches are categorized
into two styles [2, 3]: extractive and abstractive.
Extractive
summarization selects key utterances from a spoken document.
It is particularly effective in structured domains, such as news
broadcasts, where formal discourse and logical organization fa-
cilitate accurate sentence selection. Abstractive summarization
generates text that captures the semantic essence of the spoken
document. It excels in informal settings like conversations and
meetings, where rephrasing disfluent speech is crucial. Conse-
quently, abstractive speech summarization has recently received
more interest than extractive speech summarization.
Many natural language processing (NLP) studies report the
benefits of combining extractive and abstractive summarization
task [4–6]. For example, sharing knowledge between extrac-
tive and abstractive summarization processes via pre-training or
multi-task learning has been shown to enhance the performance
of abstractive summarization [5,7]. Another study [8] provides
an extractive summary, instead of the whole document, to an ab-
stractive summarization model that converts it to an abstractive
summarization. However, these prior works were limited to text
summarization. In this paper, we propose to extend the ideas of
these works to end-to-end (E2E) speech summarization.
Recently, there has been an increased interest in E2E ab-
stractive speech summarization, which directly generates a text
summary from the input speech [9–15].
Such E2E models
promise several advantages over, e.g., cascade systems perform-
ing automatic speech recognition (ASR) followed by text sum-
marization, with two independent models.
First, E2E mod-
els can be robust to recognition errors [11]. Moreover, they
can exploit paralinguistic information (e.g., emotion, empha-
sis), which was shown to be important for speech summariza-
tion [16]. However, current E2E abstractive speech summa-
rization systems still sometimes lack behind cascade systems
in some domains [11].
One reason could be the limited training data, but we be-
lieve another contributing factor is the challenge of abstract-
ing very long speech sequences directly.
In this paper, we
hypothesize that first tackling the relatively easier task of ex-
tractive summarization could help mitigate the aforementioned
long-sequence challenge in abstractive summarization. We pro-
pose E2E extractive-abstractive (ex-abstractive) summarization,
a novel E2E abstractive speech summarization approach condi-
tioned on extractive summaries. We introduce two implemen-
tations of the approach. First, we develop a modular approach,
where the ex-abstractive summarization model accepts speech
embeddings and an extractive summary obtained from an inde-
pendent extractive model as inputs. As a side contribution, for
this modular system, we develop a new extractive speech sum-
marization model, which transcribes the important utterances
directly instead of selecting them from ASR transcriptions as in
prior works [17]. Second, we propose a monolithic approach,
where one model sequentially generates the extractive followed
by the abstractive summaries.
The proposed ex-abstractive summarization models pre-
serve the advantages of E2E systems, i.e., being robust to ASR
errors and capable of exploiting paralinguistic information. In
addition, we expect that multi-task learning and conditioning
the abstractive summarization on the extractive summaries will
help find important contents from very long speech sequences.
We evaluate our framework on a web presentation corpus,
which contains 664 hours of talks with human-annotated sum-
maries. Experimental results demonstrate a 1.4 points improve-
ment in METEORscores [18] with our proposed abstractive
summarization conditioned on extractive summaries compared
with conventional systems [11]. Further analysis reveals that
extractive summaries prevent the content from being lost in ab-
stractive summarization.
2. Related works
Early works on speech summarization focused on extractive ap-
proaches. Prior works typically formulate extractive summa-
rization as a binary classification task [19–21]. Each sentence
in transcriptions is assigned a label (0, 1) to indicate its exclu-
sion (0) or inclusion (1) in summary. The extractive summary
comprises all sentences with the inclusion label 1. This ap-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
281
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1341

Adapter
Whisper Decoder
Embedding 
Abstractive summary
 
Adapter
Whisper Decoder
Embedding 
Extractive summary 
Figure 1: Modular system
Adapter
Whisper Decoder
Embedding 
Extractive
summary 
Abstractive
summary 
Figure 2: Monolithic system
proach ensures the correctness of the content at the sentence
level. There have been many approaches that select important
sentences from transcriptions using Bayesian classifier, sup-
port vector machine, and neural networks [17, 22–24]. More
recently, EESUM [21] performs E2E speech-to-speech extrac-
tive summarization directly, without transcription. It relies on
term frequency–inverse document frequency scoring over self-
supervised speech representations (e.g., Wav2Vec [25]) to select
salient content in the spoken document. This work is out of our
scope because we focus on generating text summaries instead
of speech summaries.
With the advent of sequential models [26], abstractive
speech summarization has become pre-dominant [7, 27, 28]
since rephrasing disfluent speech is crucial, it is often more ap-
propriate for speech summarization. In this work, unlike prior
abstractive speech summarization approaches, we condition the
processing on extractive summaries. For this, we design a novel
extractive speech summarization model, which transcribes only
important utterances from the spoken document instead of se-
lecting them from the transcriptions.
3. End-to-end speech summarization
3.1. Abstractive speech summarization
The E2E speech summarization system receives an input speech
signal X and generates an abstractive summary A.
Previ-
ous studies have fine-tuned pre-trained ASR models for speech
summarization tasks [11, 29]. Here, we use the Whisper [30]
encoder and decoder but introduce two modifications to address
the long-sequence and speech summarization tasks.
First, we run the encoder in a chunk-wise manner since
Whisper automatically segments long speech into 30-second
chunks and applies padding to the final chunk during prepro-
cessing. The encoded speech sequence is obtained as follows:
H = ENC (X; θe) ,
(1)
where, ENC(·) denotes the Whisper encoder function with pa-
rameters θe. H ∈RC×L×D is the sequence of Whisper em-
beddings, C is the number of chunks, L is the length of each
speech chunk, and D is the embedding dimension. Since each
speech chunk is encoded independently, the model cannot cap-
ture long-range contextual information across chunks. To ad-
dress this, we concatenate the embeddings along the C dimen-
sion, obtaining ˆ
H ∈R(CL)×D.
To further enhance long-context learning for summariza-
tion, we introduce an adapter network between the encoder and
the decoder that processes ˆ
H as follows
I = ADA
  ˆ
H; θa

∈R(CL)×D,
(2)
where, the ADA(·) is a two-layer Transformer network [31],
the θa denotes its parameters, and the I is the final embedding
sequence of the encoding process.
For the decoder, we leverage the prompt framework of
Whisper to control target generation. The decoder receives I
and special tokens S, and generates the target sequence A in an
auto-regressive manner as follows:
ak = DEC(a1:k−1, Icross, Sprompt; θd),
(3)
where ak is a k-th token of A, Sprompt denotes that the special
tokens S is inserted to the Whisper decoder as a prompt. Icross
denotes the speech embedding imputing cross-attention func-
tion. DEC(·) is the Whisper decoder function, and θd denotes
its parameters. We extend the Whisper’s special token format
as
S = [⟨|startoftranscript|⟩⊕⟨|en|⟩⊕t⊕⟨|notimestamp|⟩], (4)
where ⟨|startoftranscript|⟩is the start of sentence token, ⟨|en|⟩
denotes the language (English) ID, ⟨|notimestamp|⟩denotes
not generating timestamp.
Additionally, we introduce t ∈
{⟨|extract|⟩, ⟨|abstract|⟩} as a summarization task,
The system is trained using the cross-entropy loss between
the ground-truth summary and the prediction. During training,
we freeze θe (encoder parameters) and fine-tune the θa (adapter
parameters) and θd (decoder parameters).
3.2. Extractive speech summarization
In this paper, we aim to condition the decoding process of the
abstractive summarization on the extractive summary. For this
purpose, it is more convenient to input the text token of the ex-
tractive summary instead of utterance-level exclusion/inclusion
labels because the decoder is pre-trained with text sequences.
Therefore, we reformulate extractive summarization as a se-
quence generation task. Given an input speech signal X, an
extractive summarization model generates the target extractive
summary E directly.
The extractive summary E is a subset of the original spoken
sentences containing as much content as possible. If the train-
ing corpus provides extractive summaries, we can directly use
these for training. If not, we can create pseudo extractive sum-
maries for training targets using automatic summarization eval-
uation metrics [7] and search algorithm. We followed previous
research and employed BERTScore [32] as automatic summa-
rization metrics. We calculated BERTScore for each sentence
of a ground-truth transcription and a human abstractive sum-
mary. We used a greedy search algorithm to generate a pseudo
extractive summary, which maximizes the BERTScore. Extrac-
tive summaries are generated automatically by selecting U sen-
tences from the transcription that maximize the BERTScore for
the reference abstractive summary. The number of extracted
sentences, U, is a hyperparameter. The summarization process
is thus identical to that of abstractive summarization described
in Section 3.1, only the training target differs. However, note
that this extractive summarization is relatively easier than ab-
stractive summarization, as its task is merely to conduct long-
form ASR with a limited number of sentences.
282

4. Proposed ex-abstractive
We propose two frameworks to integrate extractive and abstrac-
tive summarization during training and inference. We introduce
the modular and monolithic ex-abstractive approaches shown in
Figs. 1 and 2, respectively.
4.1. Modular system
In the modular system, as illustrated in Fig. 1, we treat that ex-
tractive and abstractive summarization are separately conducted
with two different modules: one for extractive summarization
and another for ex-abstractive summarization.
The extractive summary E is obtained by training a sepa-
rate Whisper decoder, where A is replaced with E in Eq. (3), as
described in Sec. 3.2. The ex-abstractive model takes both the
input speech X and the generated extractive summary E as in-
put. The encoder generates I similar to Eqs. (1) and (2). Unlike
Eq. (3), the decoder is conditioned on the extractive summary
E as an additional prompt to generate the abstractive summary
A as:
ak = DEC(a1:k−1, Icross, [S ⊕E]prompt; θd).
(5)
Therefore, A is generated based on both I and E.
The modular system’s loss is the same as that described
in Sec. 3.1. The modular system only trains for the abstrac-
tive summary tasks, so we ignore the prompt composed of the
special tokens and the extractive summary at loss calculation.
In the modular system, the ex-abstractive summarization model
does not share the knowledge for solving extractive tasks.
4.2. Monolithic approach
Next, we propose a monolithic approach and try to share knowl-
edge between extractive and abstractive summarization tasks in
a single model. Unlike the modular system, the monolithic ap-
proach generates sequentially extractive and abstractive sum-
maries using the same model and a single decoding process as
shown in Fig 2. We implement this model by simply changing
the target sequence in Eq. (3) to Y = [E ⊕⟨|abstract|⟩⊕A] in
auto-regression decoding, where ⟨|abstract|⟩works as an end-
of-sequence token for E. The decoder generates Y as follows;
yk = DEC(y1:k−1, Icross, Sprompt; θd).
(6)
Here, Sprompt is as defined in Eq. (4), with t set to ⟨|extract|⟩,
yk is the k-th token of Y , y1:k−1 is the sequence of previously
generated tokens. Consequently, like the modular system, the
abstractive summary generation is conditioned on the extractive
summary.
The training loss is the sum of the cross entropy loss for
the extractive and abstractive summary, each normalized by the
sequence length. This normalization ensures that multi-tasks
of varying lengths are balanced in the total loss calculation,
preventing the extractive summarization from generating exces-
sively long sequences based on the input X [33].
5. Experiments
5.1. Experimental settings
We conduct all experiments within the ESPnet toolkit [34].
We evaluated our proposed method using a web presentation
dataset, which consists of 3384 talks, 664 hours of speech
and human-annotated transcriptions and abstractive summaries.
The evaluation set contains 424 talks corresponding to a total of
84 hours of speech.
For the initialization of E2E systems, we employed the
Whisper-large-v2 model with 32 encoder and decoder layers.
First, we fine-tuned the Whisper model for long-form speech
recognition task. We compared our approach against conven-
tional E2E and cascade speech summarization models [11]. The
cascade system, following previous study [11], uses Whisper-
base to generate transcriptions and T5 [35] for text summariza-
tion. The E2E baseline system consists of the Whisper model
fine-tuned to generate abstractive summaries as in Sec. 3.1, but
without our extension to handle long recordings. Therefore, it
can only accept the first 30 sec of the speech. We name this
model as WhisperSUM.
In this work, following Sec. 3.1, we also prepared an E2E
abstractive summarization system for long-form speech (maxi-
mum duration of training data is 20 minutes). Because of mem-
ory and computing limitations, we cannot fine-tune the Whisper
encoder parameters of the E2E model. However, it can consider
a longer context than WhisperSUM through the adapter network
and the decoder.
To construct the modular system, we generated two sepa-
rate models (an extractive and an ex-abstractive one), by fine-
tuning the pre-trained long-form ASR model separately for ex-
tractive and ex-abstractive summarization.
We use ground-
truth extractive summaries to condition abstractive summariza-
tion when training the ex-abstractive model. In contrast, for
the monolithic system, we fine-tuned the pre-trained long-form
ASR model directly for ex-abstractive summarization to output
extractive and abstractive summaries as explained in Sec. 4.2.
The length of extractive summaries is a hyper-parameter
affecting the performance of the ex-abstractive summarization
model. Based on our analysis described in Sec. 5.3, we set the
length of extractive summaries to 10% of the number of sen-
tences in the transcriptions. Note that the extractive summary
length is controlled as a hyper-parameter in the data preparation
stage. The modular system’s extractive summarization model
and monolithic model are trained with a specific summarization
length for the references. At inference time, they perform auto-
regressive decoding until the end of the sequence token appears.
We trained all models with a batch size of 1 and validated
every 1,000 steps. Early stopping was applied with a patience
of 10, and models were fine-tuned for up to 1M iteration. We
used a ReduceLROnPlateau scheduler1 with an initial learning
rate of 1e −5, and optimized using AdamW [36] with β = 0.9
and β2 = 0.999. For the abstractive and ex-abstractive models,
validation was based on abstractive summarization accuracy,
while the extractive summarization model in the modular sys-
tem was validated based on extractive summarization accuracy.
We evaluated summarization performance using BERTScore
(BERT) [32], METEOR (MTR) [18], and ROUGE-Longest (R-
L) [37].
5.2. Summarization results
Table 2 compares performances of different systems using hu-
man abstractive summaries as references (top) and automati-
cally generated pseudo extractive summaries as references (bot-
tom), as introduced in Sec. 3.2. We evaluate the baseline sys-
tems only in terms of abstractive summaries, as they do not gen-
erate extractive summaries. In contrast, our proposed modular
(system No. 4) and monolithic (system No. 5) systems can
generate both extractive (No. 4-1,5-1) and abstractive (No. 4-
2,5-2) summaries, and we evaluate the performance for both
1https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/
torch.optim.lr_scheduler.ReduceLROnPlateau.html
283

Table 1: Summarization example
Ground-truth
extractive
So I began to wonder what it might be like to parent my children in a war zone and a refugee camp. So the question I
had was could parent training programs be useful for families while they were still in ...
Ground-truth
abstractive
What it’s like to be a parent in a war zone & How do parents protect their children and help them feel secure again
when their homes are ripped apart by war ? In this warm-hearted talk , psychologist Aala El-Khani shares her work
supporting – and learning from – refugee families affected by the civil war in Syria . She asks: How can we help these
loving parents give their kids the warm , secure parenting they most need ?
Monolithic
extractive
So I began to wonder what it might be like to parent my children in a war zone and a refugee camp. So the question I
had was could parent training programs be useful for families while they were still in ...
Monolithic
abstractive
How we can help refugees children in Syria & Refugee camp teachers are the most innocent and vulnerable victims of
conflict, but they are also the most vulnerable. How can we help refugees in Syria in general? In this inspiring talk,
psychologist and parent trainer Hala Al-Khalili explains how we can help refugees.
End-to-end
abstractive
How to help children in conflict, war, chaos and conflict & Refugee camp teachers are the most innocent and vulnerable
victims of war and conflict. In this inspiring talk, psychologist and TED Fellow Zahra Al-Khalabi explains how we can
help children in conflict, war, chaos and conflict.
Table 2:
Abstractive and Extractive summarization perfor-
mance. systemE and systemA output extractive and abstrac-
tive summaries, respectively. The conventional systems (1,2,3)
only perform abstractive summarization.
No.
System
R-L
MTR
BERT
Evaluation for human abstractive reference
1
Cascade [11]
18.2
12.6
87.1
2
WhisperSUM [11]
16.8
11.9
85.1
3
End-to-end
16.8 ± 1.1
11.5 ± 0.9
85.1 ± 1.0
4-1
ModularE
8.3 ± 0.8
10.4 ± 1.0
70.5 ± 1.2
4-2
ModularA
18.5 ± 1.1
13.6 ± 1.2
87.6 ± 1.3
5-1
MonolithicE
9.0 ± 0.8
11.7 ± 1.0
73.1 ± 1.1
5-2
MonolithicA
18.8 ± 1.2
14.0 ± 1.2
87.8 ± 1.1
Evaluation for pseudo extractive reference
4-1
ModularE
50.9 ± 1.1
40.6 ± 1.0
93.6 ± 0.9
5-1
MonolithicE
43.2 ± 1.0
40.1 1.2
90.0 ± 0.9
summary styles. Our proposed modular (No. 4-2) and mono-
lithic (No. 5-2) systems outperformed the baseline end-to-end
and cascade models, with the monolithic system achieving the
highest performance in all three metrics. The provided extrac-
tive summary includes topic words. These topic words support
abstractive summarization finding the important content from
long speech sequence, as described in Sec 5.4.
Due to the gap between written and spoken style, the ex-
tractive summaries (spoken style) achieve lower scores than the
abstractive ones (written style) when evaluated with human ab-
stractive summary references (written style). Therefore, to con-
firm if the generated summaries are effectively extractive, we
measure how similar they are to the reference pseudo-extractive
summaries, obtained as explained in Sec. 3.1. The bottom two
rows of Table 2 evaluate the quality of the extractive summaries
generated with the modular and monolithic systems.
The results show that both modular and monolithic systems
generate extractive summaries very close to the pseudo ones
based on all three metrics. Since the extractive summarization
model in the modular system is explicitly trained for extrac-
tive task, it achieves the best performance on extractive targets.
Although the extractive summaries produced by the monolithic
system may deviate from reference extractive summaries, they
ultimately enhance the final abstractive summarization perfor-
Table 3: Monolithic system’s abstractive summarization results
for each extractive summarization ratio. The results are ob-
tained using ground-truth extractive summary at inference.
Extracted sentence
RL
MTR
BS
0
16.8
11.5
85.1
2
18.2
13.4
86.8
4
18.8
13.3
86.8
6
18.6
13.8
87.6
8
19.0
13.9
87.5
10
19.0
13.8
87.6
mance.
5.3. Optimal summarization ratio of extractive summary
In this section, we explore the optimal value of U introduced in
Sec. 3.2. We set U = rZ where r is the summarization ratio and
Z is the number of sentences in the input speech. During extrac-
tive data creation, we vary r and train separate monolithic sys-
tems for each. Table 3 presents the abstractive summarization
performance when using ground-truth extractive summaries as
input. These results indicate that the extractive summarization
ratio of 5–10% is optimal for abstractive summarization, yield-
ing the best score in the monolithic system.
5.4. Examples
Table 1 shows the summarization example of monolithic and
E2E systems. This example shows the first several sentences of
monolithic system and ground-truth extractive summary. The
extracted utterances include topic words (highlighted by red,
blue, and green) that appear in the ground-truth abstractive sum-
mary. The summary generated with the monolithic system con-
tains two topic words (giver, taker) and lost matcher. How-
ever, the E2E system’s summary only contains one topic word
(giver). This result shows an example where extractive summa-
rization can pick topic words from utterances and prevent the
content from being lost in abstractive summarization.
6. Conclusion
We propose an E2E speech summarization system that condi-
tions extractive summary to abstractive summarization. Extrac-
tive summaries prevents the content from being lost in abstrac-
tive summarization and improves summarization performance.
In future works, we will apply our proposal to a wide domain.
284

7. References
[1] C. Hori and S. Furui, “Improvements in automatic speech summa-
rization and evaluation methods,” in Proc. of SLP.
ISCA, 2000,
pp. 326–329.
[2] V. Dalal and L. G. Malik, “A survey of extractive and abstractive
text summarization techniques,” in Proc. of InterSpeech.
IEEE,
2013, pp. 109–110.
[3] N. Kalyani A and S. Jothilakshmi, “Techniques for summariza-
tion of spoken document: A survey,” IJAST, vol. 28, pp. 154–167,
2019.
[4] S. C. Atitienei and A. Marginean, “Exploring the limits of T5:
multitask fine- tuning for reasoning, summarization, sentiment
analysis and figurative language understanding,” in Proc. of ICCP.
IEEE, 2024, pp. 1–8.
[5] A. Magooda, D. J. Litman, and M. Elaraby, “Exploring multitask
learning for low-resource abstractive summarization,” in Proc. of
EMNLP.
ACL, 2021, pp. 1652–1661.
[6] R. Habu, R. Ratnaparkhi, A. Askhedkar, and S. Kulkarni, “A hy-
brid extractive-abstractive framework with pre & post-processing
techniques to enhance text summarization,” in Proc. of ACIT.
IEEE, 2023, pp. 529–533.
[7] T. Ma, Q. Pan, H. Rong, Y. Qian, Y. Tian, and N. Al-Nabhan, “T-
bertsum: Topic-aware text summarization based on BERT,” IEEE
Trans. Comput. Soc. Syst., vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 879–890, 2022.
[8] C. S. Vinukonda, T. Kumar, V. Raj, R. A. Kumar, and S. Mistry,
“A hybrid approach for automatic text summarization,” in Proc.
of ICCIT, 2021.
[9] R. Sharma, S. Palaskar, A. W. Black, and F. Metze, “End-to-end
speech summarization using restricted self-attention,” in Proc. of
ICASSP.
IEEE, 2022, pp. 8072–8076.
[10] T. Kano, A. Ogawa, M. Delcroix, R. Sharma, K. Matsuura, and
S. Watanabe, “Speech summarization of long spoken document:
Improving memory efficiency of speech/text encoders,” in Proc.
of ICASSP.
IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–5.
[11] R. Sharma, W. Chen, T. Kano, R. Sharma, S. Arora, S. Watanabe,
A. Ogawa, M. Delcroix, R. Singh, and B. Raj, “Espnet-summ:
Introducing a novel large dataset, toolkit, and a cross-corpora
evaluation of speech summarization systems,” in Proc. of ASRU.
IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–8.
[12] K. Matsuura, T. Ashihara, T. Moriya, T. Tanaka, A. Ogawa,
M. Delcroix, and R. Masumura, “Leveraging large text corpora for
end-to-end speech summarization,” in Proc. of ICASSP.
IEEE,
2023, pp. 1–5.
[13] K. Miyazaki, Y. Masuyama, and M. Murata, “Exploring the capa-
bility of mamba in speech applications,” in Proc. of InterSpeech,
2024, pp. 237–241.
[14] H. Shang, Z. Li, J. Guo, S. Li, Z. Rao, Y. Luo, D. Wei, and
H. Yang, “An end-to-end speech summarization using large lan-
guage model,” in Proc. of InterSpeech, 2024, pp. 1950–1954.
[15] W. Kang and D. Roy, “Prompting large language models with au-
dio for general-purpose speech summarization,” in Proc. of Inter-
Speech, 2024, pp. 1955–1959.
[16] R. Sharma, S. Shon, M. Lindsey, H. Dhamyal, and B. Raj,
“Speech vs. transcript: Does it matter for human annotators in
speech summarization?”
in Proc. of ACL.
ACL, 2024, pp.
14 779–14 797.
[17] S. Lin, Y. Yeh, and B. Chen, “Extractive speech summarization -
from the view of decision theory,” in Proc. of InterSpeech. ISCA,
2010, pp. 1684–1687.
[18] S. Banerjee and A. Lavie, “METEOR: an automatic metric for MT
evaluation with improved correlation with human judgments,” in
ACL.
ACL, 2005, pp. 65–72.
[19] X. Cheng and W. Lu, “Shapley value guided extractive text sum-
marization,” in Proc. of ICASSP. IEEE, 2024, pp. 10 906–10 910.
[20] I. Malkiel, Y. Yehuda, J. Ephrath, O. Katz, O. Barkan, N. Nice,
and N. Koenigstein, “Unsupervised topic-conditional extractive
summarization,” in Proc. of ICASSP.
IEEE, 2024, pp. 11 286–
11 290.
[21] J. Wang, “Essumm: Extractive speech summarization from un-
transcribed meeting,” in Proc. of InterSpeech.
ISCA, 2022, pp.
3243–3247.
[22] S. Lin, B. Chen, and H. Wang, “A comparative study of probabilis-
tic ranking models for chinese spoken document summarization,”
ACM Trans. Asian Lang. Inf. Process., vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 3:1–3:23,
2009.
[23] C. Tsai, H. Hung, K. Chen, and B. Chen, “Extractive speech sum-
marization leveraging convolutional neural network techniques,”
in Proc. of SLT.
IEEE, 2016, pp. 158–164.
[24] A. Ogawa, T. Hirao, T. Nakatani, and M. Nagata, “Ilp-based com-
pressive speech summarization with content word coverage maxi-
mization and its oracle performance analysis,” in Proc. of ICASSP.
IEEE, 2019, pp. 7190–7194.
[25] S. Schneider, A. Baevski, R. Collobert, and M. Auli, “wav2vec:
Unsupervised pre-training for speech recognition,” in Proc. of In-
terSpeech.
ISCA, 2019, pp. 3465–3469.
[26] A. M. Rush, S. Chopra, and J. Weston, “A neural attention model
for abstractive sentence summarization,” in Proc. of EMNLP.
ACL, 2015, pp. 379–389.
[27] J. Zhang, Y. Zhao, H. Li, and C. Zong, “Attention with sparsity
regularization for neural machine translation and summarization,”
IEEE ACM Trans. Audio Speech Lang. Process., vol. 27, no. 3,
pp. 507–518, 2019.
[28] J. Pilault, R. Li, S. Subramanian, and C. Pal, “On extractive and
abstractive neural document summarization with transformer lan-
guage models,” in Proc. of EMNLP. ACL, 2020, pp. 9308–9319.
[29] K. Matsuura, T. Ashihara, T. Moriya, T. Tanaka, T. Kano,
A. Ogawa, and M. Delcroix, “Transfer learning from pre-trained
language models improves end-to-end speech summarization,” in
Proc. of InterSpeech.
ISCA, 2023, pp. 2943–2947.
[30] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak su-
pervision,” in ICML, ser. Proceedings of Machine Learning Re-
search, vol. 202.
PMLR, 2023, pp. 28 492–28 518.
[31] M. Wang, W. Han, I. Shafran, Z. Wu, C. Chiu, Y. Cao, N. Chen,
Y. Zhang, H. Soltau, P. K. Rubenstein, L. Zilka, D. Yu, G. Pun-
dak, N. Siddhartha, J. Schalkwyk, and Y. Wu, “SLM: bridge the
thin gap between speech and text foundation models,” in Proc. of
ASRU.
IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–8.
[32] T. Zhang, V. Kishore, F. Wu, K. Q. Weinberger, and Y. Artzi,
“Bertscore: Evaluating text generation with BERT,” in Proc. of
ICLR.
OpenReview.net, 2020.
[33] R. Fukuda, T. Kano, A. Ando, and A. O. and, “Speech emotion
recognition based on
large-scale automatic speech recognizer,” in Proc. of ICASSP.
IEEE, 2025, p. To be appear.
[34] S. Watanabe, T. Hori, S. Karita, T. Hayashi, J. Nishitoba, Y. Unno,
N. Enrique Yalta Soplin, J. Heymann, M. Wiesner, N. Chen,
A. Renduchintala, and T. Ochiai, “ESPnet: End-to-end speech
processing toolkit,” in InterSpeech, 2018, pp. 2207–2211.
[35] C. Raffel, N. Shazeer, A. Roberts, K. Lee, S. Narang, M. Matena,
Y. Zhou, W. Li, and P. J. Liu, “Exploring the limits of transfer
learning with a unified text-to-text transformer,” J. Mach. Learn.
Res., vol. 21, pp. 140:1–140:67, 2020.
[36] I. Loshchilov and F. Hutter, “Decoupled weight decay regulariza-
tion,” in Proc. of ICLR.
OpenReview.net, 2019.
[37] L. Chin-Yew, “ROUGE: A package for automatic evaluation of
summaries,” in Workshop on Text Summarization Branches Out.
ACL, 2004, pp. 74–81.
285
