warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Towards Human-like Multimodal Conversational Agent
by Generating Engaging Speech
Taesoo Kim, Yongsik Jo, Hyunmin Song, Taehwan Kim
Artificial Intelligence Graduate School, UNIST, Republic of Korea
{taesoo0630, josik, hyunminsong, taehwankim}@unist.ac.kr
Abstract
Human conversation involves language, speech, and visual
cues, with each medium providing complementary information.
For instance, speech conveys a vibe or tone not fully captured
by text alone. While multimodal LLMs focus on generating text
responses from diverse inputs, less attention has been paid to
generating natural and engaging speech. We propose a human-
like agent that generates speech responses based on conversa-
tion mood and responsive style information. To achieve this,
we build a novel multi-sensory conversation dataset focused on
speech to enable agents to generate natural speech. We then
propose a multimodal LLM-based model for generating text
responses and voice descriptions, which are used to generate
speech covering para-lingual information. Experimental results
demonstrate the effectiveness of utilizing both visual and audio
modalities in conversation to generate engaging speech.
Index Terms: human-computer interaction, computational par-
alinguistics
1. Introduction
In real life, people communicate through multimodal signals
and interpret others’ non-verbal cues. This highlights the im-
portance of multimodal understanding, where words, facial ex-
pressions, and speech vibes contribute to interpreting meaning.
Furthermore, individuals adapt their responses based on these
cues, not only in what they say but also in how they express it,
reflecting subtle differences in tone, emphasis, and delivery.
Recently, communication with machines has made signifi-
cant progress due to the remarkable success of large language
models (LLMs), which demonstrated a high level of common
knowledge [1].
For instance, text-based QA systems [2, 3],
visual QA systems [4, 5], video QA systems [6, 7], audio-
video QA systems [8] can interpret text, video and audio in-
puts. Despite these advances, these models are currently only
capable of generating text responses. There have also been at-
tempts to generate other modalities using LLMs. These mod-
els try to retain the semantic information of the input but of-
ten struggle with cross-modal consistency [9, 10] or lose acous-
tic details in generated speech due to usage of speech tokens
[11, 12]. Integrating a text-to-speech (TTS) module with LLMs
is a straightforward approach that enables effective speech inter-
action. However, current TTS modules [13, 14, 15] are inade-
quate for human-like communication that considers paralingual
information reflecting the mood of communication.
Developing the proposed conversational agent requires a
large-scale corpus of multimodal interactive conversation data.
However, this presents a significant challenge due to the limita-
tions of existing datasets, which are often constrained by their
smaller size or the lack of certain modalities, such as audio. To
Yes, I am very excited about the party.
User
…
Are you excited to go to the party?
Agent: Text
Agent : Text + Audio
Agent : Text + Audio + Para-lingual
* Text Description
Agent delivers a quite expressive speech with a 
very high-pitched voice at a moderate speed
Yes, I am very excited about the party.
Yes, I am very excited about the party.
Figure 1: A conversational agent with (Top) text, (Middle) text
and audio, (Bottom) text, audio, and paralinguistic signals.
overcome these limitations, we present a new dataset, Multi-
Sensory Conversation (MSenC) dataset. Our dataset is a care-
fully curated collection of about 31,000 utterances extracted
from daily conversation YouTube videos. The creation of such
a conversational model relies on exposure to this diverse range
of multimodal conversation dataset and requires the seamless
integration of textual, visual, and acoustic elements. To com-
prehend multimodal information in conversations, we adopt the
BLIP-2 [16] approach to ensure efficient cross-modal training.
Finally, to communicate with paralinguistic components de-
rived from the overall communication mood, we utilize LLM
and instruction tuning which can guide our model in generating
voice descriptions. By generating responsive voice descriptions
that consider the conversation history, we can enhance the nat-
uralness and contextual appropriateness in dialogue systems, as
illustrated in Figure 1.
The contributions of our work can be summarized as fol-
lows: To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to study a
dialogue model incorporating para-lingual output in responses.
We generate a response with paralinguistic information reflect-
ing multimodal factors in conversation. We introduce the Multi-
Sensory Conversation dataset, which will be publicly available
to advance research in multimodal conversational agents. Our
model effectively utilizes both visual and auditory modalities,
producing contextually appropriate speech responses, as vali-
dated by both quantitative metrics and qualitative assessments.
2. MSenC Dataset
Most existing multimodal conversation datasets [17, 18, 19] fo-
cus on single-speaker utterances and lack comprehensive mul-
timodal features. Another dataset [20] provides facial images
and audio in communication but shows fixed spatial information
such as a green screen background. Notably, a dataset [21] cov-
ers many requirements but is designed for emotional analysis,
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
4828
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1075

leading to imprecise audio splitting and background noise from
the audience. To effectively communicate in a more human-like
way, a dataset that encompasses conversing with human faces,
rich visual context, and high-quality voice is desirable.
To address these limitations, we have taken the initiative
to develop our novel dataset, the MultiSensory Conversation
(MSenC) dataset depicted in Figure 2. This dataset, sourced
from YouTube and designed for daily conversation, ensures that
there is no background music and the spoken English is clear
and high quality, preventing overlaps, disfluencies and non-
speech vocalisations. Each scene includes a person, present-
ing natural conversations with rich visual and auditory elements
that help enhance the contextual understanding of dialogue sit-
uations. These videos offer a diverse range of voice features
and interactions across various scenarios and contexts, crucial
for developing robust models. Consequently, we divided the
video content into 1,120 dialogues and 31,409 utterances. The
total video length is 21.5 hours and the average duration of an
utterance is 2.46 seconds.
2.1. Preprocessing
2.1.1. Dialogue Split
Manually segmenting over 36 hours of videos based on speech
is a challenging task. However, it is crucial to carefully check
for any unnecessary parts to ensure the content is suitable for
learning conversations. So we proceeded to manually segment
and filter out the dialogue by human to ensure fairness and
accuracy following criteria: 1) When multiple dialogues oc-
curred within the same context such as the individuals involved
changed. 2) When the scene transitioned to a different setting
during the conversation.
2.1.2. Utterance Split
To efficiently segment the dialogue into individual utterances,
we can employ speaker diarization, which identifies speakers
in an audio recording and assigns timestamps to their speech.
While this approach faces challenges, such as difficulty in ac-
curately distinguishing speakers and a tendency to overly frag-
ment.
To address these issues, we incorporated automatic
speech recognition (ASR) with timestamp capabilities. In our
approach, we utilized a pre-trained ASR model1 that trains Ope-
nAI’s Whisper-large-v3 [22] on English-only data, providing
more accurate and faster inference speeds. However, since this
model is trained for audio clips up to 25 seconds long, it strug-
gles to accurately timestamp longer clips. To overcome this,
we applied a scene detector2 to divide longer audio into shorter
clips. For clips that are still longer than 25 seconds, we em-
ployed speaker diarization3. This method allowed us to more
effectively segment the entire video into distinct speech units,
each corresponding to individual speakers.
2.2. Metadata Processing
2.2.1. Speaker Assignment
We assign a speaker ID to each video clip according to dialogue
units. While speaker diarization is the desirable method for in-
dexing speakers to utterances, it has limitations in performance.
We take an alternative approach to address this limitation: clus-
ter the speech embedding. We obtain speech embeddings from
1https://huggingface.co/distil-whisper/distil-large-v3
2https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect
3https://huggingface.co/pyannote/speaker-diarization-3.1
[Chronological Order]
Speech Description : A male speaker delivers a very expressive and animated speech 
with a high-pitched voice in a slightly confined sounding environment.
[Speaker 1]
Text : Oh, Jay? How are you? 
Audio:
Speech Description : A female voice speaks very slowly with a very low pitch and a 
moderate intonation in a confined, slightly echoey environment. 
[Speaker 2]
Text : A little sleepy.
Audio:
Speech Description : A male speaker delivers a monotone speech with a very high-
pitched voice in a confined, slightly echoey environment. He speaks slightly slowly.
[Speaker 1]
Text : This is my friend. His name is Dan.
Audio:
Speech Description : A female voice speaks quite slowly with a very low pitch and 
moderate intonation in a confined, echo-less environment.
[Speaker 2]
Text : Nice to meet you.
Audio:
Video 
Collection
Dialogue 
split
Automatic Speech 
Recognition
Speaker Diarization
Dialogue 
Audio 
Scene Detection
Speaker assignment
Speech description
 extraction
Figure 2: The illustration depicts the creation process of the
MultiSensory Conversation dataset.
each speech clip using WeSpeaker [23], a model focused on
learning speaker embedding, particularly for speaker verifica-
tion tasks. Specifically, we use the HDBSCAN [24], an algo-
rithm capable of handling varying densities and does not require
predefining the number of clusters. This flexibility is particu-
larly important in our environment, where the number of par-
ticipants is variable. We employ cosine distance as the distance
measure since most speaker verification systems utilize cosine
similarity for evaluation. To assess the quality of our process,
we calculated the accuracy of our method by manually labeling
20 dialogues, which included a total of 602 samples, resulting
in an accuracy of 95.49%. This demonstrates the effectiveness
of our speaker assignment method.
2.2.2. Speech Description
Since our goal is generating engaging speech, we extracted
speech descriptions that accurately capture the characteristics
of the speech. Parler-TTS [25] is a text-to-speech system that
transforms text into speech, incorporating detailed paralingual
descriptions. This system provides methods 4 for extracting an-
notations of speaking style and generating audio descriptions,
derived from these annotations.
For processing the MSenC dataset, we extract annotations
including gender, pitch, speech monotony, speaking pace, and
reverberation. Especially for gender, which is needed for gen-
erating speech descriptions but cannot be derived directly, we
perform gender recognition 5 from raw speech, achieving an
F1 score of 99.93%. Subsequently, the LLaMa-3 [2] generates
natural language descriptions that effectively convey the con-
versation mood based on these annotations.
4https://github.com/huggingface/dataspeech
5https://huggingface.co/alefiury/wav2vec2-large-xlsr-53-gender-
recognition-librispeech
4829

MSenC
MELD [21]
Modality
B@1
B@3
METEOR
ROUGE
B@1
B@3
METEOR
ROUGE
Text
12.30
4.11
5.81
11.90
7.99
1.60
4.47
8.09
Text + Audio
12.96
4.82
6.27
11.83
9.10
2.11
4.35
8.24
Text + Video
14.62
4.78
6.63
13.38
5.62
1.00
2.53
4.03
Text + Audio + Video
15.11
5.25
6.89
14.12
10.23
2.19
4.74
9.88
Table 1: Ablation study on different modalities across two datasets. The text-only modality model represents a pure LLM that has been
fine-tuned with each dataset. ”B” stands for BLEU score.
LLM
Speech
Decoder
Text 
Response
Speech 
Description
Speech 
Response
1st 
Multimodal Utterance
V           A           T
2nd 
Multimodal Utterance
V           A           T
3rd 
Multimodal Utterance
V           A           T
. . .
Text
Text Embedding
Audio
Speech 
Projection Layer
Video
Video 
Projection Layer
Video
Q-Former
Audio
Q-Former
Speech Feature
Video Feature
Multimodal 
Utterance
V       A     T
Concatenation
Figure 3: Overview of model architecture. The multimodal ut-
terances are composed of text, audio, and video features. Then
LLM generates text response and speech description with them.
3. Method
We develop a model capable of processing multiple modali-
ties and generating engaging speech within a large language
model. Figure 3 shows the overview of our architecture. Our
model takes a set of images, audio, and text as a single ut-
terance input and generates a responsive textual sentence out-
put along with a voice description. We denote our dataset as
D =

da, dv, dl	
where a represents the acoustic modality, v
the visual modality, and l the linguistic modality, with d indi-
cating dialogue. Each dialogue consists of a set of utterances.
Let dm = {um
1 , um
2 , ..., um
t , um
t+1} represent a single dialogue,
where t denotes time step, and m presents a certain modality.
3.1. Multimodal Understanding
We utilize Q-Former following Video-LLaMA [8], where video
and audio modalities are processed using Q-Formers with the
same structure as Blip-2 [16]. This Q-Former has demonstrated
strong performance by enhancing computational efficiency and
model stability. It produces fixed-size features regardless of the
length of input video and audio, which simplifies the integration
of multimodal data and ensures consistent input sizes for sub-
sequent processing. To initialize the Q-Former, we adopt the
pretrained model from Blip-2 [16]. These models are then fine-
tuned to enable our model to capture visual context and auditory
information effectively.
For single utterance um
t =

ua
t , uv
t , ul
t
	
, the video and au-
dio inputs are processed separately. For video sampling, we
uniformly extract three frames per second and consider the list
of images as a conversation scene. In contrast, the audio pro-
cessing takes the entire speech as input. While video sampling
is conducted to reduce redundant information and improve effi-
ciency, the same method cannot be applied to audio due to sig-
nificant information loss. The sampled data are applied to their
respective Q-Former and then projected into the text embedding
space of a large language model through the linear projection
layer. The resulting features are concatenated with those from
other modalities and used as utterance representations.
3.2. Speech Description Generation
The processed utterances are combined with the conversation
history {um
1 , um
2 , ..., um
t−1, um
t } and fed into the LLM to under-
stand the context comprehensively. To provide richer communi-
cation, we train our model to incorporate not only linguistic in-
formation but also paralinguistic cues by describing voice. This
is achieved through instruction tuning, a new process where
voice descriptions are created after the language model gener-
ates responses. Ultimately, the model generates the response
and speech description in textual format. We also provide in-
structions to specify which speaker delivers each utterance, en-
abling the model to respond or continue the previous utterance.
3.3. Training Loss
We use a target response sentence paired with its correspond-
ing audio description.
The cross-entropy loss is then com-
puted between the target

ul
t+1, desct+1
	
and the model out-
put
n
ˆul
t+1,
ˆ
desct+1
o
, as illustrated in Equation 1, using the
concatenation operation denoted by ∥.
Loss = CE(ul
t+1 ∥desct+1, ˆul
t+1 ∥
ˆ
desct+1)
(1)
Furthermore, we fine-tune the LLM backbone with parameter
efficient fine tuning [26] to specialize the model specifically for
generating paralinguistic descriptions in the conversation.
4. Experiment
4.1. Experimental Setup
In our experiments, we evaluate our model on the MSenC
dataset and MELD [21]. We extract visual features using CLIP-
VIT [27]. The acoustic features are obtained from WavLM [28].
We utilize Mistral-7B [29] as our LLM backbone and utilize
Parler-TTS [25] as our speech decoder. Our experimental en-
vironment was conducted using a single NVIDIA A100 80G
GPU. We use a batch size of 6 and training has spent 30 hours.
4.2. Text Analysis
4.2.1. Modality Ablation
Since our model processes multimodal input, we assess how
each modality impacts performance by examining changes in
metrics. METEOR [30] measures not just word overlap but also
semantic meaning, and ROUGE [31] measures coherence and
flow. We calculate the score only on the text response, exclud-
ing the voice description. Table 1 shows the impact of audio and
video modality processed through the Q-Former. According to
the MSenC dataset result, incorporating additional modalities
enhances the quality of the responses, indicating a positive ef-
fect on multimodal understanding. Specifically, combining au-
dio, video, and text yields the highest performance, suggesting
that responses are more appropriate, contextually accurate, and
natural-sounding. Similar results are observed with the MELD
4830

54.6
53.4
56.0
53.4
48.2
54.8
56.0
43.6
59.6
39.2
35.8
32.2
41.4
42.4
38.2
38.6
41.2
32.4
6.2
10.8
11.8
5.2
9.4
7.0
5.4
15.2
8.0
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Ours
Baseline
Tie
    
Emotional              
Suitability & Engagement        
Conversation Naturalism
Figure 4: User study results on the MSenC test dataset.
Model
Accuracy
Ours
15.10%
Parler-TTS [25] (w.o. description)
11.20%
StyleTTS2 [14]
13.72%
HierSpeech++ [15]
12.54%
Table 2: Result of evaluating emotional continuity in conversa-
tions on the MSenC test dataset.
[21], where incorporating audio and video inputs also results in
the highest performance.
4.3. Speech Analysis
4.3.1. User Study
We conducted a human evaluation how to assess the conver-
sational speech style generated by our system contributes to
expressiveness, focusing on the impact of paralinguistic infor-
mation.
We used Amazon Mechanical Turk for the assess-
ment, which involved 5 judges and 100 generated samples.
The conversational history was limited to a maximum of five
entries, presented through video content. The evaluation fo-
cused on three criteria: emotional, suitability & engagement,
and conversational naturalness. We compared our system with
StyleTTS2 [14], which applies a suitable speaking style to the
input text, HierSpeech++ [15], a zero-shot speech synthesis
framework that enhances robustness and expressiveness, and
Parler-TTS [25], which can generate speech from a natural lan-
guage prompt, and in our comparison, we evaluated it without
such a prompt.
Comparisons are made against their official
checkpoints. The speech sample was generated from the testset
of the MSenC dataset. As in Figure 4, our model shows superior
results on every criterion, which demonstrates the effectiveness
of our approach to generate expressive speech reflecting con-
versation mood.
4.3.2. Emotion Classification
We classify the emotions of each utterance and calculate accu-
racy based on whether the emotions match. The process as-
sumes that if an utterance’s emotion aligns with the previous
one, it is considered empathetic, highlighting continuity in dia-
logue. Using the MSenC dataset and a pretrained speech emo-
tion classification model6, we classify one of eight emotions:
angry, calm, disgust, fearful, happy, neutral, sad, or surprised.
Our model generates each speech and then compares it with a
prior speech to assess emotional consistency. Table 2 demon-
6https://huggingface.co/ehcalabres/wav2vec2-lg-xlsr-en-speech-
emotion-recognition
   Unimodal Model Output : “No problem.”
   Multimodal Model Output: “Is there a toilet in the restaurant next door?”
   Reference: “Where is a toilet?”
[ Dialogue #1]
[Speaker 1 Response]
[Speaker 1] : “Do you have a toilet here?”
[Speaker 2] : “Oh no, I'm so sorry. There is no toilet in this shop.”
[Speaker 1] : “Ah, okay.”
   Output Text : “Yes, you're a very important person.”
   Output Description : “A female voice speaks quite slowly with a very low 
pitch in a confined, slightly expressive tone.”
   Reference Text : “Elena, you're one of the family now.”
   Reference Description : “A female speaker delivers a quite expressive 
speech with a very low pitch in a very confined, enclosed space.”
[ Dialogue #2]
[Speaker 2 Response]
[Speaker 1] : “My family is very big, many people.”
[Speaker 2] : “Yes, Elena. That's nice. You have a big family. I have a small family.”
[Speaker 1] : “Now an extra person, me.”
Figure 5: Qualitative analysis samples evaluated on the MSenC
test dataset.
strates that our model outperforms the baseline models in main-
taining consistent emotional expression across the conversation.
4.4. Qualitative Analysis
Our previous analysis highlights our model’s ability to under-
stand multimodality and determine how the text should be spo-
ken. However, it is worth noting that metrics alone might not
capture the full essence in an open-domain scenario. Conse-
quently, we present a comparative analysis illustrated in Fig-
ure 5. Dialogue # 1 compares the multimodal model with the
text-based unimodal model. The speaker’s gestures in the video
and tone of voice in the audio convey an urgent situation. These
additional modalities enable our model to generate more con-
textually appropriate responses.
In Dialogue #2, the output
shows that our model generates speech descriptions with similar
characteristics to the reference, including pace, pitch, and tone.
This leads to more engaging and contextually suitable speech
responses. Overall, our model has a better understanding of
multimodal inputs, generating engaging responses that closely
match the context and improve relevance. The generated speech
samples are included in the supplementary material.
5. Conclusion
We study a dialogue model with visual and audio inputs from
a speaker and generate engaging speech. We propose a novel
dataset that is suitable and curated for training such models.
Then we propose a novel conversation model that outperforms
the baseline in experiments and thus shows its effectiveness.
Our model cannot replicate a speaker’s exact voice from his-
torical recordings, but this does not affect inference since the
agent consistently uses a single voice. We believe our approach
contributes to more natural and human-like conversation and
our proposed dataset may promote subsequent research.
4831

6. Acknowledgements
This work was supported by Institute of Information &
communications Technology Planning & Evaluation (IITP)
grant funded by the Korea government (MSIT) (No.RS-2022-
II220608/2022-0-00608, Artificial intelligence research about
multimodal interactions for empathetic conversations with hu-
mans, No.IITP-2025-RS-2024-00360227, Leading Generative
AI Human Resources Development & No.RS-2020-II201336,
Artificial Intelligence graduate school support(UNIST)) and the
National Research Foundation of Korea(NRF) grant funded by
the Korea government(MSIT) (No. RS-2023-00219959).
7. References
[1] J. Achiam, S. Adler, S. Agarwal, L. Ahmad, I. Akkaya, F. L. Ale-
man, D. Almeida, J. Altenschmidt, S. Altman, S. Anadkat et al.,
“Gpt-4 technical report,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774, 2023.
[2] A. Dubey, A. Jauhri, A. Pandey, A. Kadian, A. Al-Dahle, A. Let-
man, A. Mathur, A. Schelten, A. Yang, A. Fan et al., “The llama
3 herd of models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.21783, 2024.
[3] R. Taori, I. Gulrajani, T. Zhang, Y. Dubois, X. Li, C. Guestrin,
P. Liang, and T. B. Hashimoto, “Stanford alpaca: An instruction-
following llama model,” https://github.com/tatsu-lab/stanford
alpaca, 2023.
[4] H. Liu, C. Li, Q. Wu, and Y. J. Lee, “Visual instruction tuning,”
Advances in neural information processing systems, vol. 36, 2024.
[5] H. Liu, C. Li, Y. Li, and Y. J. Lee, “Improved baselines with visual
instruction tuning,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.03744, 2023.
[6] P. Wang, S. Bai, S. Tan, S. Wang, Z. Fan, J. Bai, K. Chen, X. Liu,
J. Wang, W. Ge et al., “Qwen2-vl: Enhancing vision-language
model’s perception of the world at any resolution,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2409.12191, 2024.
[7] B. Li, Y. Zhang, D. Guo, R. Zhang, F. Li, H. Zhang, K. Zhang,
P. Zhang, Y. Li, Z. Liu et al., “Llava-onevision: Easy visual task
transfer,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.03326, 2024.
[8] H. Zhang, X. Li, and L. Bing, “Video-LLaMA: An instruction-
tuned audio-visual language model for video understanding,” in
Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing: System Demonstrations, Y. Feng
and E. Lefever, Eds.
Singapore: Association for Computational
Linguistics,
Dec. 2023,
pp. 543–553. [Online]. Available:
https://aclanthology.org/2023.emnlp-demo.49/
[9] S. Wu, H. Fei, L. Qu, W. Ji, and T.-S. Chua, “Next-gpt: Any-to-
any multimodal llm,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.05519, 2023.
[10] Z. Tang, Z. Yang, M. Khademi, Y. Liu, C. Zhu, and M. Bansal,
“Codi-2: In-context interleaved and interactive any-to-any gener-
ation,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2024, pp. 27 425–27 434.
[11] J. Zhan, J. Dai, J. Ye, Y. Zhou, D. Zhang, Z. Liu, X. Zhang,
R. Yuan, G. Zhang, L. Li et al., “Anygpt:
Unified multi-
modal llm with discrete sequence modeling,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.12226, 2024.
[12] D. Zhang, S. Li, X. Zhang, J. Zhan, P. Wang, Y. Zhou, and
X. Qiu, “Speechgpt: Empowering large language models with
intrinsic cross-modal conversational abilities,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.11000, 2023.
[13] K. Shen, Z. Ju, X. Tan, Y. Liu, Y. Leng, L. He, T. Qin, S. Zhao,
and J. Bian, “Naturalspeech 2: Latent diffusion models are natu-
ral and zero-shot speech and singing synthesizers,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2304.09116, 2023.
[14] Y. A. Li, C. Han, V. Raghavan, G. Mischler, and N. Mesgarani,
“Styletts 2: Towards human-level text-to-speech through style dif-
fusion and adversarial training with large speech language mod-
els,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 36,
2024.
[15] S.-H. Lee, H.-Y. Choi, S.-B. Kim, and S.-W. Lee, “Hierspeech++:
Bridging the gap between semantic and acoustic representation of
speech by hierarchical variational inference for zero-shot speech
synthesis,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.12454, 2023.
[16] J. Li, D. Li, S. Savarese, and S. Hoi, “Blip-2: Bootstrapping
language-image pre-training with frozen image encoders and
large language models,” in International conference on machine
learning.
PMLR, 2023, pp. 19 730–19 742.
[17] A. Ephrat, I. Mosseri, O. Lang, T. Dekel, K. Wilson, A. Hassidim,
W. T. Freeman, and M. Rubinstein, “Looking to listen at the cock-
tail party: A speaker-independent audio-visual model for speech
separation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1804.03619, 2018.
[18] K. Wang, Q. Wu, L. Song, Z. Yang, W. Wu, C. Qian, R. He,
Y. Qiao, and C. C. Loy, “Mead: A large-scale audio-visual dataset
for emotional talking-face generation,” in European Conference
on Computer Vision.
Springer, 2020, pp. 700–717.
[19] H. Chu, D. Li, and S. Fidler, “A face-to-face neural conversation
model,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vi-
sion and Pattern Recognition, 2018, pp. 7113–7121.
[20] S. Park, C. Kim, H. Rha, M. Kim, J. Hong, J. Yeo, and Y. Ro,
“Let‘s go real talk:
Spoken dialogue model for face-to-face
conversation,” in Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting
of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1:
Long Papers),
L.-W. Ku,
A. Martins,
and V. Srikumar,
Eds.
Bangkok,
Thailand:
Association for Computational
Linguistics, Aug. 2024, pp. 16 334–16 348. [Online]. Available:
https://aclanthology.org/2024.acl-long.860/
[21] S. Poria, D. Hazarika, N. Majumder, G. Naik, E. Cam-
bria, and R. Mihalcea, “Meld:
A multimodal multi-party
dataset for emotion recognition in conversations,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1810.02508, 2018.
[22] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak su-
pervision,” in International Conference on Machine Learning.
PMLR, 2023, pp. 28 492–28 518.
[23] H. Wang, C. Liang, S. Wang, Z. Chen, B. Zhang, X. Xiang,
Y. Deng, and Y. Qian, “Wespeaker: A research and production
oriented speaker embedding learning toolkit,” in ICASSP 2023-
2023 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–5.
[24] L. McInnes, J. Healy, S. Astels et al., “hdbscan: Hierarchical den-
sity based clustering.” J. Open Source Softw., vol. 2, no. 11, p.
205, 2017.
[25] D. Lyth and S. King, “Natural language guidance of high-
fidelity text-to-speech with synthetic annotations,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.01912, 2024.
[26] E. J. Hu, Y. Shen, P. Wallis, Z. Allen-Zhu, Y. Li, S. Wang,
L. Wang, and W. Chen, “Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large lan-
guage models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.09685, 2021.
[27] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, C. Hallacy, A. Ramesh, G. Goh, S. Agar-
wal, G. Sastry, A. Askell, P. Mishkin, J. Clark et al., “Learning
transferable visual models from natural language supervision,” in
International conference on machine learning. PMLR, 2021, pp.
8748–8763.
[28] S. Chen, C. Wang, Z. Chen, Y. Wu, S. Liu, Z. Chen, J. Li,
N. Kanda, T. Yoshioka, X. Xiao et al., “Wavlm: Large-scale self-
supervised pre-training for full stack speech processing,” IEEE
Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing, vol. 16, no. 6,
pp. 1505–1518, 2022.
[29] A. Q. Jiang, A. Sablayrolles, A. Mensch, C. Bamford, D. S. Chap-
lot, D. d. l. Casas, F. Bressand, G. Lengyel, G. Lample, L. Saulnier
et al., “Mistral 7b,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.06825, 2023.
[30] S. Banerjee and A. Lavie, “Meteor: An automatic metric for mt
evaluation with improved correlation with human judgments,” in
Proceedings of the acl workshop on intrinsic and extrinsic eval-
uation measures for machine translation and/or summarization,
2005, pp. 65–72.
[31] C.-Y. Lin, “Rouge: A package for automatic evaluation of sum-
maries,” in Text summarization branches out, 2004, pp. 74–81.
4832

