warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Who knows best? Effects of speech disfluencies on incentivized
decision-making
Ambika Kirkland1, Jens Edlund1
1Department of Speech, Music and Hearing, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden
kirkland@kth.se, edlund@speech.kth.se
Abstract
Previous work has shown that speech disfluencies can nega-
tively impact judgments about a speaker’s competence and con-
fidence. However, these effects have primarily been examined
with Likert-type rating scales, which are not informative about
how judgments might translate to behavior. Does the presence
of disfluencies actually guide decision-making when listeners
stand to gain concretely from making the correct choice? We
sought to address this question with a web-based decision task
in which participants were asked to choose between two con-
flicting sources of information. Our results suggest that listen-
ers do take speech fluency into account when deciding who or
what to believe.
Index Terms: speech perception, decision-making, text-to-
speech, paralinguistics
1. Introduction
Spontaneous speech is rich with information about a speaker’s
knowledge, attitudes and traits, cognitive effort, and the state
of the speech planning process. Speech disfluencies (e.g., filled
and silent pauses, repetitions, repairs, or lexical fillers) comprise
one such source of information that listeners might use to make
inferences about a speaker.
The evidence that speech disfluencies affect evaluations of
speakers is increasingly robust.
In a few cases, disfluencies
have been shown to positively impact the way speakers are per-
ceived, for example, making them sound more spontaneous [1]
or friendly [2]. By and large, however, listeners seem to rate
disfluent speakers more negatively on a variety of dimensions.
Disfluent speech is associated with lower ratings of social de-
sirability [3, 4], competence [5, 6], confidence [7, 8, 5, 6], sin-
cerity [6], and trustworthiness [2], as well as a higher degree of
anxiety [9].
It is less clear how, or whether, responses on Likert-type
rating scales would carry over to actual behavior. The degree
and nature of the relationship between judgments and behav-
ioral outcomes is often complex [10], and decision-making can
involve heuristics that do not make use of all available infor-
mation to guide behavior [11]. The fact that hesitant speakers
might sound less competent does not guarantee that a listener
would decide to discount what they say.
Previous work has connected speech disfluencies to listener
behaviors, specifically in regards to deception. Although speech
disfluencies do not seem to actually reflect dishonesty, and in
fact, the opposite may be true [12], listeners nonetheless seem
to think that speakers are more disfluent when lying [13, 14, 15].
Experiments involving bluffing games have shown that when
speakers produce more disfluencies, listeners are more likely to
think they are being deceptive, and they adapt their gameplay
accordingly [12, 16].
While these studies provide convincing evidence that dis-
fluent speech might affect decisions, bluffing games inherently
produce an expectation of potential dishonesty. This makes it
unclear whether disfluencies still affect behavior when a lis-
tener is not explicitly prompted to infer and perhaps mistrust
the speaker’s intent. Many decisions about who and what to be-
lieve occur in contexts where there is no expectation that some-
one might deliberately mislead us.
It is also unclear whether listeners take fluency into account
when trying to decide who to believe, as opposed to whether
to believe: in other words, when asked to discriminate between
two conflicting sources of information. Asking listeners to eval-
uate competing information sources is tricky to implement in a
more naturalistic settings, since even the two party interactions
involved in bluffing games make it difficult to disentangle the
effects of specific speech behaviors, such as disfluencies, from
more global impressions of the speaker.
The present study seeks to directly investigate whether
speech disfluencies impact decision-making by presenting lis-
teners with two conflicting sources of information that vary in
terms of fluency and incentivizing decision accuracy. We hy-
pothesize that listeners are will select fluent answers as correct
at a higher rate than disfluent answers.
2. Method
2.1. Materials
Our stimuli consisted of short conversations between two speak-
ers discussing possible answers to trivia questions, synthesized
using the Eleven Flash v2.5 text-to-speech model from Eleven-
Labs1.
2.1.1. Design criteria
We designed the stimuli with a number of criteria in mind. First,
we wanted questions with an objectively correct answer, rather
than matters of opinion. However, we also wanted to ensure
that participants could not base their decisions on prior knowl-
edge or answers from search engines or chatbots, since we were
interested in how the delivery of the answers affected their deci-
sions. We also wanted to rule out, to the greatest extent possible,
that our results could be explained by more general impressions
of a specific voice. Finally, we wanted to avoid inherent biases
in terms of which answers seemed most plausible.
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
4508
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1990

Table 1: Variations of stimulus items for counterbalancing
Answer order: AB
Answer order: BA
Fluent -disfluent
Speaker A: Oh, I know this one. The 7th leading
cause of death in 1900 was liver disease.
Speaker B: No, I don’t think so. I remember the uh,
the 7th leading cause of death being uh, cancer.
Speaker A: Oh, I know this one. The 7th leading
cause of death in 1900 was cancer.
Speaker B: No, I don’t think so. I remember the uh,
the 7th leading cause of death being uh, liver disease.
Disfluent - fluent
Speaker A: Oh, I know this one. The uh, the 7th
leading cause of death in 1900 was uh, liver disease.
Speaker B: No, I don’t think so. I remember the
7th leading cause of death being cancer.
Speaker A: Oh, I know this one. The uh, the 7th
leading cause of death in 1900 was uh, cancer.
Speaker B: No, I don’t think so. I remember the
7th leading cause of death being liver disease.
2.1.2. Guesstimation style trivia questions
The trivia questions for our stimuli were inspired by the guessti-
mation games in [17]. The items we used were based on ranked
lists related to topics such as names, weather statistics or causes
of death, e.g., “What was the 7th leading cause of death in
1900?” The rankings were gathered from publicly available
data, primarily from American government agencies, such as
the US National Weather Service, Social Security Administra-
tion, Census Bureau, and Center for Disease Control.
2.1.3. Answer alternatives
Next, we selected pairs of possible answers that were incorrect
by one rank in either direction (e.g., the answers to “What was
the 7th leading cause of death in 1900?” were liver disease, the
6th ranked cause of death, and cancer, the 8th ranked cause).
The answers were incorrect, but not unreasonable: they could
be thought of as nearly correct answers since nearby items on a
list ranked by objective criteria differ quantitatively rather than
categorically.
2.1.4. Filtering on ease of finding external answers
We then queried Google and ChatGPT with these questions. If
either tool yielded the correct answer, or one of our two nearly
correct answers, the item was discarded. It would have been
possible, but very time consuming, for participants to find the
correct answers themselves by locating and manually searching
through statistical databases or scans of historical documents.
2.1.5. Filtering on answer bias
In order to avoid answer bias, we conducted a pilot study in
which 20 participants were asked to choose between the two
alternatives, counterbalanced for presentation order. A Z test of
proportions was used to find answer pairs where each alternative
was equally likely to be chosen (i.e., the rate of choosing a given
answer did not differ from chance). Eight trivia questions and
corresponding answer pairs met this criterion and were used to
create test items. An additional 4 were used as filler items.
1https://elevenlabs.io/
2.1.6. Design of the final stimuli
After selecting the trivia questions we synthesized short dia-
logues in which pairs of speakers discussed the possible an-
swers. Examples of the text used to synthesize the utterances
are shown in Table 1. In each exchange, the first speaker stated
that they knew the answer to the question, then asserted their
answer. Speaker 2 expressed disagreement and provided their
own answer. The question itself was implicitly provided within
the first speaker’s utterance.
One utterance from each pair was disfluent. The same types
of disfluencies (a repetition of “the” with the filled pause “uh“
and a filled pause before the answer) were used for all disfluent
utterances.
2.1.7. Synthesis of the final stimuli
In order to give the speakers distinct but similar voices, we
used the ElevenLabs voice design tool, which creates TTS
voices based on a text description input by the user. We cre-
ated four voices with this tool, two male and two female, us-
ing the same description aside from speaker gender: “Ameri-
can [man/woman] in [his/her] mid 30s. Conversational, casual,
spontaneous speech.”
2.2. Procedure
2.2.1. Variations and balancing
We constructed a total of 16 variations of each utterance pair by
varying the speaker order, the gender of the speakers (both male
or both female), the order of the answers, and which speaker
was disfluent. This allowed us to counteract any potential ef-
fects of ordering or characteristics of a specific voice by coun-
terbalancing these variations across participants, while also ob-
fuscating the fluency manipulation. The fluency/answer order
variations are shown in Table 1. Statistical tests were subse-
quently carried out as an additional check for ordering or voice
confounds. These are detailed in Section 3.2.
In addition to the test items described above, each partic-
ipant was presented with the same four filler items in which
both speakers were either fluent or disfluent. The fillers were
intended to further conceal the fluency manipulation by includ-
4509

ing items where the two utterances were not distinguished by
fluency. Responses to filler items were not included in the anal-
ysis.
2.2.2. Participants
A total of 48 participants (28 female, 20 male) were recruited
via Prolific2 to take part in a web-based listening task on cogni-
tion.run3. Participants were native speakers of English from the
United States, UK, Ireland, Canada and Australia, with a mean
age of 41.2. They were pre-screened to ensure that they had not
participated in the pilot study and had a submission approval
rate of at least 90% on Prolific.
2.2.3. Listening task
Participants were informed that the correct answer might not
be among the two alternatives, and told to pick the option they
thought was closest to the correct answer in such cases. They
were also made aware that the voices were computer generated.
Figure 1: An experimental trial in the listening task. Note: the
blue speech bubbles are included to represent what the partici-
pants heard, but no transcripts of the audio were shown in the
actual experiment
In order to incentivize efforts to do well at the task, we told
participants that bonus payments would be awarded based on
performance. In reality, this threshold was extremely low. All
participants who completed the experiment and passed the two
attention checks were given a 33% bonus. Given that none of
the answers presented were actually correct, it would have been
impossible to award performance beyond this minimal criterion.
Furthermore, the incentive was intended to encourage sincere
effort at being accurate rather than to reward specific choices
during the task.
Before the experimental trials, participants completed a
brief practice round to ensure they understood the format of
the experiment. The stimuli played automatically at the start
of each trial, but participants were able to play the audio again
if needed. However, they were encouraged not to spend too
much time on each answer. Participants responded by clicking
the button beneath the audio player that corresponded to what
they thought was the correct answer. The buttons were enabled
only after the audio had finished playing the first time.
2https://www.prolific.com/
3https://www.cognition.run/
After the experimental trials, participants were asked to rate
their overall level of confidence in the answers they had given,
on a scale ranging from 1 (very unsure) to 5 (very confident).
This item was optional.
3. Results
3.1. Effects of fluency on answer choice
The percentage of disfluent vs. fluent answers chosen by par-
ticipants as correct is shown in Figure 2. We conducted a one
proportion Z test to determine whether the proportion of flu-
ent answers chosen as correct significantly differed from chance
(50%). The test showed that fluent answers were significantly
more likely to be chosen as correct than disfluent answers, Z =
2.53, p (two-tailed) <0.05.
Figure 2: Percentage of answers chosen as correct by fluency
3.2. Confound checks
In addition to the extensive counterbalancing described in Sec-
tion 2.1.6, we carried out several checks to further rule out con-
founds related to the speaker’s voice or a bias toward selecting
the first vs. the second utterance as correct.
We tested whether listeners chose any particular voice as
correct more often than would be expected by carrying out a
Pearson’s χ2. The distribution of “correct” responses across
speakers did not differ significantly from chance, χ2 (3) = 1.77,
p = 0.62.
Effects of utterance order were tested with a one proportion
Z test. Participants did not show a preference for selecting the
first utterance as the correct one, or vice versa, Z = 0.61, p (two-
tailed) = 0.54.
3.3. Participants’ confidence in their performance
Since the confidence rating was optional, not every participant
completed it. Out of 48 participants, 34 responded to this item.
Their mean rating on the 5-point scale was 2.65 (SD=1.08).
4. Discussion
Our results suggest that listeners take disfluency into account
when deciding between conflicting sources of information, in
the context of a presumed reward for making the right decisions.
This expands upon previous findings that speech disfluencies
guide decisions about whether to trust a potentially dishonest
speaker [16, 12], showing that listeners also use these cues when
deciding who or what to believe, even in the absence of any
clear expectation of deliberate misinformation.
4510

While our task was less naturalistic than the social games
used by [16] and [12], it was also significantly easier and less
costly to implement.
Furthermore, while a number of fac-
tors were not controlled for in our experiment (for example,
prosodic characteristics of the voices or the length of utter-
ances), we were able to rule out ordering effects and blanket
effects of simply preferring one voice over another.
We also believe that our findings are potentially more in-
formative about how listeners use the information provided by
speech disfluencies than rating scale responses. Rating scales
are a good starting point for establishing whether an association
exists between some aspect of speech and listener judgments,
but more behavioral tasks are needed to understand the prac-
tical implications of these associations. Experiments such as
ours could be used to test hypotheses about how speech charac-
teristics influence behavior, and then follow up on promising re-
sults with larger-scale studies. This type of task also lends itself
well to combining with online measurement techniques such as
electroencephalography (EEG). EEG can provide valuable in-
sights into the cognitive processes underlying decision-making,
but using EEG recordings in conversational settings poses sub-
stantial methodological challenges [18].
One potential criticism of our study is that we asked par-
ticipants to make a choice in which neither option was correct.
Participants’ fairly lukewarm assessment of how well they per-
formed at the task seems to indicate that they found it challeng-
ing. This could have magnified the effects of any salient differ-
ences between stimuli and forced listeners to rely more heavily
on cues that might not be as influential in real-life decision-
making.
While being forced to make decisions without much to go
on is by no means an unusual situation, future work should ex-
plore how disfluencies affect decisions where the choices are
less ambiguous. Can disfluency cause listeners to doubt infor-
mation that they initially believe is correct? This could be in-
vestigated by manipulating the objective reliability of a speaker
(for example, by providing several rounds of feedback about
the accuracy of the answers they give) or using questions that
do have a correct answer.
Since we used synthesized speech to create our stimuli,
and informed participants of this, one might argue that listen-
ers could not meaningfully make the kinds of inferences about
a speaker’s knowledge that are needed to decide who to believe.
However, there is evidence that listeners do make such infer-
ences even when they are fully aware that the “speaker” is not
a human. Discounting effects that rely on metacognitive pro-
cesses have been shown in previous experiments using synthetic
speech, where the speaker admitting to being anxious made lis-
teners more forgiving of their disfluency despite knowing that
they were not a real person [6]. Nonetheless, future work could
delve more deeply into how listeners form these kinds of infer-
ences when interacting with non-human conversation partners
such as social robots.
Finally, our experiments used the same types of disfluencies
in roughly the same locations in all of the disfluent utterances.
In light of evidence that the type and position of speech disflu-
encies affect their degree of impact on judgments [8, 5, 6], it
would be interesting to explore whether these same factors play
a role in decision-making.
5. Conclusions
Our findings suggest that speech disfluencies, in addition to im-
pacting evaluations of a speaker’s competence or confidence,
can influence motivated decision-making. Listeners who were
incentivized to perform well at a task chose answers that were
delivered fluently at a higher rate than disfluent answers. Future
work should look into whether fluency can sway listeners when
the choices are less ambiguous than the ones we presented. Fu-
ture studies should also consider whether the type and location
of disfluencies affect decisions to the same extent that they af-
fect judgments.
6. References
[1] J. Gustafson, J. Beskow, and ´E. Sz´ekely, “Personality in the mix
– investigating the contribution of fillers and speaking style to the
perception of spontaneous speech synthesis,” Proc. SSW, pp. 48–
53, 2021.
[2] J. K. Barge, D. W. Schlueter, and A. Pritchard, “The effects of
nonverbal communication and gender on impression formation in
opening statements,” Southern Communication Journal, vol. 54,
no. 4, pp. 330–349, 1989.
[3] C. H. Lay and B. F. Burron, “Perception of the personality of the
hesitant speaker,” Perceptual and Motor Skills, vol. 26, no. 3, pp.
951–956, 1968.
[4] M. Wester, M. Aylett, M. Tomalin, and R. Dall, “Artificial person-
ality and disfluency,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2015.
[5] A. Kirkland, M. Wlodarczak, J. Gustafson, and ´E. Sz´ekely, “Eval-
uating the impact of disfluencies on the perception of speaker
competence using neural speech synthesis,” in International
Congress of Phonetic Sciences (ICPhS), 2023, pp. 550–554.
[6] A. Kirkland, J. Gustafson, and ´E. Sz´ekely, “Pardon my disfluency:
The impact of disfluency effects on the perception of speaker com-
petence and confidence,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2023, pp. 5217–
5221.
[7] ´E. Sz´ekely, J. Mendelson, and J. Gustafson, “Synthesising uncer-
tainty: The interplay of vocal effort and hesitation disfluencies.”
in Proc. Interspeech, 2017, pp. 804–808.
[8] A. Kirkland, H. Lameris, ´E. Sz´ekely, and J. Gustafson, “Where’s
the uh, hesitation? The interplay between filled pause location,
speech rate and fundamental frequency in perception of confi-
dence,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2022, pp. 18–22.
[9] J. A. Harrigan, I. Suarez, and J. S. Hartman, “Effect of speech
errors on observers’ judgments of anxious and defensive individ-
uals,” Journal of Research in Personality, vol. 28, no. 4, pp. 505–
529, 1994.
[10] C. R. Tittle and R. J. Hill, “Attitude measurement and prediction
of behavior: An evaluation of conditions and measurement tech-
niques,” Sociometry, pp. 199–213, 1967.
[11] W. Thorngate, “Efficient decision heuristics,” Behavioral Science,
vol. 25, no. 3, pp. 219–225, 1980.
[12] A. Pistono, R. Hartsuiker et al., “Deceptive deception: disfluen-
cies are incorrectly interpreted as cues to deceptive speech,” in
Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Soci-
ety, vol. 46, 2024.
[13] J. E. Loy, H. Rohde, and M. Corley, “Effects of disfluency in on-
line interpretation of deception,” Cognitive Science, vol. 41, pp.
1434–1456, 2017.
[14] J. Arciuli, D. Mallard, and G. Villar, ““um, i can tell you’re lying”:
Linguistic markers of deception versus truth-telling in speech,”
Applied psycholinguistics, vol. 31, no. 3, pp. 397–411, 2010.
[15] L. Anolli and R. Ciceri, “The voice of deception: Vocal strategies
of naive and able liars,” Journal of Nonverbal Behavior, vol. 21,
pp. 259–284, 1997.
[16] B. De keersmaecker, R. J. Hartsuiker, and A. Pistono, “(don’t) be-
lieve me, i’m telling the truth! speech disfluency and eye contact
as cues to veracity, intention, and truth judgement,” Language,
Cognition and Neuroscience, vol. 39, no. 10, pp. 1263–1277,
2024.
4511

[17] S. Al Moubayed, J. Edlund, and J. Gustafson, “Analysis of gaze
and speech patterns in three-party quiz game interaction.” in In-
terspeech, 2013, pp. 1126–1130.
[18] A. Kirkland, “An exploration of the neural correlates of turn-
taking in spontaneous conversation,” 2020.
4512

