warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Extending the Fongbe to French Speech Translation Corpus:
resources, models and benchmark
D. Fortun´e Kponou1, Salima Mdhaffar2, Fr´ejus A. A. Laleye3, Eug`ene C. Ezin1, Yannick Est`eve2
1Institut de Math´ematiques et de Sciences Physiques, Dangbo, B´enin
2LIA, Avignon, France
3OPSCIDIA, Paris, France
{fortune.kponou,eugene.ezin}@imsp-uac.org, {salima.mdhaffar,
yannick.esteve}@univ-avignon.fr, frejus.laleye@opscidia.com
Abstract
This paper introduces FFSTC 2, an expanded version of the ex-
isting Fongbe-to-French speech translation corpus, addressing
the critical need for resources in African dialects for speech
recognition and translation tasks. We extended the dataset by
adding 36 hours of transcribed audio, bringing the total to 61
hours, thereby enhancing its utility for both automatic speech
recognition (ASR) and speech translation (ST) in Fongbe, a
low-resource language. Using corpus, we develop both cas-
cade and end-to-end speech translation systems. Our models
employ AfriHuBERT and HuBERT147 as encoders, and NLLB
and mBART as decoders. We introduce a diacritic-substitution
technique for both ASR and Machine Translation (MT) which,
yields a BLEU score of 37.23 compared to 39.60 for the fully
diacritized configuration. Among the evaluated end-to-end ar-
chitectures, AfriHuBERT-NLLB with data augmentation attains
the highest BLEU score of 26.32.
Index Terms: speech translation, speech recognition, African
language, low resource language
1. Introduction
The creation of high-quality audio datasets for Natural Lan-
guage Processing (NLP) tasks remains a significant challenge.
Current efforts to develop speech datasets have predominantly
focused on widely spoken languages such as English, French,
and Spanish, leaving dialectal and minority languages largely
under-represented. As a result, the vast majority of the world’s
7,000 languages remain underserved, with only a few dozen
language directions covered in existing speech translation cor-
pora [1]. This lack of inclusion presents a critical problem, as
it perpetuates language barriers and limits the accessibility of
NLP technologies for speakers of less-represented languages.
In recent years, there has been increasing attention on low-
resource languages, particularly those spoken in regions such
as India and Africa. Despite being spoken by millions of peo-
ple, many of these languages remain severely under-represented
in terms of linguistic resources. For instance, Africa is home
to over 2,000 languages [2], yet, as highlighted by [3], only
around 40 of these languages have been integrated into modern
language technologies. This stark disparity underscores the sig-
nificant under-representation of African languages in contem-
porary NLP research and applications.
Initiatives such as the Mozilla Common Voice project1 have
sought to address this gap by providing a platform for collect-
ing speech data for certain African languages. However, the im-
pact of such efforts remains limited. This limitation stems from
the platform’s design, which relies on collecting data through
1https://commonvoice.mozilla.org
the reading of written texts. This approach is less effective for
many African languages, which are primarily oral and have lim-
ited written resources. Historically, oral traditions [4] have been
widespread across the continent, which has hindered the devel-
opment of writing systems and further complicated efforts to
create comprehensive linguistic datasets.
While resources Fongbe are limited, some datasets do ex-
ist in the state of the art. For Fongbe, we have the ALFFA [5]
dataset for speech recognition, which includes 6 hours of au-
dio along with transcriptions, and the FFSTC dataset [6], which
contains 31 hours of Fongbe speech paired with French trans-
lations.
Also, corpora like GigaST are pseudo-labeled, dis-
tinguishing them from fully human-annotated datasets such as
[7, 8] contained in ALFFA, which contains a few hours of data
for languages like Amharic, Hausa, Swahili, Wolof.
In this paper, we present a significant extension of the ex-
isting Fongbe-to-French speech translation corpus [6]. This ex-
tension not only adds new parallel data from spoken Fongbe
to written French but also enables the training of an auto-
matic speech recognition (ASR) model for Fongbe by provid-
ing speech recordings with their corresponding transcriptions.
This dataset will provide an opportunity for research commu-
nity to test all new SSL models designed for African languages
[9, 10], especially since no existing SSL model currently in-
cludes Fongbe in its training data.
The data described here
will be used to organize a translation task in IWSLT 20252.
This paper provides experiments and evaluation for Automatic
Speech Recognition (ASR) in Fongbe and Speech Translation
(ST) from Fongbe to French. These experiments aim to as-
sess the effectiveness of leveraging pre-trained models for low-
resource language processing, with a focus on a tonal African
language spoken by 4 million people.
2. Related work and motivations
Unlabeled data is far more abundant than labeled data. Self-
supervised learning (SSL) methods have emerged as a power-
ful approach to leverage such unlabeled data in machine learn-
ing, enabling the creation of pre-trained models. A first notable
example in the domain of speech is the XLSR-53 model [11],
which is pre-trained on 53 languages data. Studies [12, 13, 14]
have extensively explored the use of pre-trained speech en-
coders and text decoders to enhance system performance for the
speech translation task. These techniques, collectively referred
to as transfer learning, have demonstrated significant effective-
ness in improving performance, particularly in low-resource
settings. By transferring knowledge from high-resource lan-
guages to low-resource ones, transfer learning provides a ro-
bust initialization for both encoder and decoder components,
2International Workshop on Spoken Language Translation
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
4533
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1801

thereby significantly contributing to improved translation accu-
racy. In addition to transfer learning, other approaches have
been adopted to enhance performance in low-resource speech
translation, such as synthesizing parallel data [15]. However,
our work specifically focuses on the transfer learning paradigm,
leveraging its proven capabilities to address the challenges of
low-resource language processing.
Despite the challenges associated with creating speech cor-
pora for African languages, there has been a notable shift to-
wards the inclusion of these languages in pre-trained mod-
els.
This trend is evident in the progressive integration of
African languages into state-of-the-art models, such as Hu-
BERT147 [10], which supports 16 African languages, and its
variant AfriHuBERT [9], which extends coverage to 39 lan-
guages.
Various strategies have been employed to use pre-trained
models effectively. For instance, some studies [16, 17] utilize
pre-trained encoders like XLSR-53 as feature extractors or en-
coders paired with a transformer [18] based decoder. Our exper-
iments align with this latter, employing HuBERT variants as the
encoder and using a pre-trained Large Language Model (LLMs)
transformer based as decoder.
Although the literature does not provide definitive guidance
on selecting the most suitable pre-trained speech encoder, [19]
observed that encoders trained on the same language as the
source language tend to extract more relevant audio features,
thereby improving overall performance.
Given that Fongbe
is an African language and no pre-trained speech model in-
cludes it at the time of writing, we hypothesize that using a pre-
trained encoder trained on other close linguistically African lan-
guages would yield promising results. To test this hypothesis,
we conduct training experiments using pre-trained models Hu-
BERT147 and AfriHuBERT as encoders, combined with pre-
trained multilingual decoders such as mBART [20] and NLLB
[21].
3. Fongbe linguistic features
Fongbe, a Gbe language spoken primarily in Benin, serves as a
lingua franca for approximately 40–45% of the Beninese pop-
ulation [22]. Fongbe plays a significant role in media, being
widely used in both public and private radio and television pro-
grams. However, Fongbe tonal nature presents unique chal-
lenges, particularly in written and translated texts. In linguis-
tics, tone refers to the use of pitch variations to distinguish
meaning in spoken language [23]. Lexical tones, in particu-
lar, help differentiate words that are otherwise phonologically
identical [24]. These pitch variations, or tonal patterns, are pro-
duced by changes in the fundamental frequency of a syllable.
For the written form of Fongbe, mainly based on the Latin al-
phabet with additional symbols, these tones are typically repre-
sented using diacritics, which are essential for accurately con-
veying tonal distinctions in written form. Fongbe primarily fea-
tures two main tonemes as noted by [25], from which all other
tones are derived. In Fongbe, each syllable carries a tone, and
the absence of tone marks can often lead to confusion. Regard-
ing tones, there are four tones in Fongbe. The low tone ( ` ), the
high tone ( ´ ), the low-high tone ( ˇ ) and lastly, the mid tone ( -
) marked by a small horizontal line. The absence of tone is con-
sidered as the mid tone. Fongbe utilizes an alphabet comprising
23 consonants and 12 vowels as shown in Table 1.
Fongbe exhibits a lexicographical structure that is primar-
ily monosyllabic, disyllabic, and trisyllabic shown in table 2.
A compatibility study conducted on the combinations of con-
Table 1: Fongbe consonants and vowels
Consonants
Vowels
b, c, d, d , f, g, gb, h, j,
a, e, E, i, o , O , u
k, kp, l, m, n, ny, p , r, s,
t, v, w, x, y, z
sonants, vowels, and the four tones revealed the presence of
376 monosyllabic structures out of 1, 104 meaningful forms.
This analysis highlights the phonological richness and structural
diversity of Fongbe, underscoring its significance in linguistic
studies.
Table 2: Fongbe syllabic structure
Structure
Types
Examples
Monosyllabic
V, CV
`a, b`a
Disyllabic
VCV, CVCV,
azo, gal´I,
CVV, VV
fE`E, `aa
Trisyllabic
VCVCV, CVCVCV,
as`Ol`O, logos`o,
VCVV, CVCVV
agoo, k´Ed´E´E
CVVCV
jaunta
4. Data collection process
We augmented the FFSTC corpus [6] by adding new samples
selected from a validated set in French, sourced from the Com-
mon Voice project [26], a Mozilla Foundation initiative. To re-
duce the human cost, we utilized the Google Translate to gen-
erate Fongbe translations of the French sentences. These trans-
lations were then meticulously reviewed and refined by a team
of linguists to ensure accuracy and linguistic quality. Once val-
idated, the sentences were uploaded to our custom web applica-
tion [27] for recording.
Participants, comprising both male and female speakers,
were invited to read at least 2, 000 sentences each. The reading
sessions were conducted in a controlled environment to min-
imize ambient noise, as Fongbe is a tonal language, and back-
ground sounds could interfere with the accurate perception of its
tonal distinctions. To further ensure data quality, we carefully
selected participants to minimize potential biases arising from
regional accents. Specifically, we included only native speakers
of Fongbe, excluding individuals who learned Fongbe as a sec-
ond language or who speak Fongbe with influences from Mahi
or Gungbe dialect accents.
The recorded sentences underwent a rigorous validation
process by a team of six validators, working in pairs, with
each sentence validated once. Sentences containing background
noise (e.g., wind or engine noise) or exhibiting incorrect tone
patterns were rejected. This meticulous validation process en-
abled us to successfully add 42, 000 new samples to the existing
FFSTC corpus.
The FFSTC corpus originally stemmed from a data compe-
tition in which multiple participants translated the same French
sentences directly into Fongbe. This process resulted in du-
plicate transcripts and nearly identical speech recordings, con-
tributing to a rich diversity of speech samples. To maximize
the potential of this variation, we retained these duplicates in
the training set while ensuring that only unique transcripts were
included in the validation and test sets. This approach allows fu-
ture trained models to benefit from the diversity of translations
while maintaining data integrity during the evaluation process.
4534

4.1. Statistics of the dataset
As outlined in the introduction, we conducted experiments in
both ASR and Speech Translation. For the end-to-end ST task,
we utilized the entire dataset. While for the ASR and the cas-
cade ST task, we use only the 36 hours of speech available with
their transcripts in Fongbe, as described in Table 3.
Table 3: Dataset statistics
Experiments
Split
Hours
Sentences
ASR
Test
3.93
2.5 k
ASR
Valid
3.54
2.4 k
ASR
Train
29
19.9 k
ST
Test
5.9
3.9 k
ST
Valid
6.1
4.1 k
ST
Train
48
29.5 k
5. Experiments and results
In this section, we present the experimental framework for (1)
ASR system, (2) cascade ST system and end-to-end ST system.
5.1. SSL models Description
The use of pre-trained models, as demonstrated in several stud-
ies, shows the potential to create efficient recognition or trans-
lation systems [28] even with limited amounts of data by fine-
tuning them on downstream tasks. For our experiments, we
chose to use that method. Among the publicly available pre-
trained speech encoders, such as XLSR-128 [29], and HuBERT,
we selected HuBERT [30] variants, specifically HuBERT147
and AfriHuBERT, specialized to some African languages (but
not to Fongbe).
This decision was based on their superior
performance on downstream tasks, such as Automatic Speech
Recognition (ASR), as demonstrated in [31].
HuBERT is closely related to Wav2Vec 2.0 [32]. While
Wav2Vec 2.0 distinguishes between true latent speech represen-
tations and the contextualized representations generated by the
transformer encoder, HuBERT employs a technique similar to
BERT [33] for speech units. Specifically, HuBERT computes a
loss over masked speech units, forcing the model to learn high-
level representations of unmasked inputs to accurately infer the
targets of the masked ones. This approach has been shown to
outperform Wav2Vec 2.0 when trained on the same amount of
data in [30]. Given these advantages, we expected HuBERT147
and AfriHuBERT to deliver strong performance in our experi-
ments.
mBART is a denoising sequence-to-sequence model pre-
trained on high-resource languages. It uses a Transformer archi-
tecture to reconstruct texts from noised inputs, where phrases
are masked and sentences are permuted.
Known for its ro-
bustness with noisy data, mBART is particularly well-suited
in tasks like speech translation, especially for tonal languages
such as Fongbe. NLLB (No Language Left Behind) is a multi-
lingual translation model pre-trained on a wide range of lan-
guages, including several African languages.
Designed for
high-quality translation, NLLB aims to bridge the gap between
high-resource and low-resource languages, making it a strong
candidate for our translation experiments.
5.2. ASR experiments
The first experiment was performed using the original Fongbe
transcripts, including diacritics, to establish a baseline perfor-
mance.
In the second experiment, we removed the diacrit-
ics from the transcripts to evaluate the impact of diacritic re-
moval on recognition accuracy. The third experiment involved
a novel approach of diacritic substitution, where we systemati-
cally identified monosyllabic words with diacritics and replaced
them with their base syllables accompanied by a unique numeri-
cal identifier. We report few examples of the substitution on the
Table 4. This substitution aimed to modify the representation
of diacritics while preserving linguistic information, potentially
improving the model’s ability to generalize across similar pho-
netic patterns.
Diacritic
Replacement
Diacritic
Replacement
´o
o1
`o
o2
ˇo
o3
ˆo
o4
´a
a1
`a
a2
ˇa
a3
ˆa
a4
´e
e1
`e
e2
ˇe
e3
ˆe
e4
Table 4: Mapping of diacritics for o, a, and e to numerical
representations.
To conduct the experiments, we trained three different Sen-
tencePiece [34] tokenizer models at character level using the
combined training and validation sets for each specific case.
For the base experiment (with diacritics), the substitution ex-
periment and the experiment without diacritics the vocabulary
size are, respectively 62, 44 and 36. This reduction in vocabu-
lary size for the substitution and third experiment case reflects
the simplified representation of text when diacritics are either
removed or replaced, which in turn may influence the model
efficiency and performance. The three ASR models are end-
to-end models composed of the AfriHuBERT speech encoder
followed by three 1024-dim dense layers. They were fine-tuned
on the ASR training dataset by using the CTC loss function. All
experiments are run over 50 epochs and results are summarized
in the Table 5. ASR recipes will be released for reproducibility.
Table 5: Word Error Rates (%) on the ASR test dataset
Experiments
WER
ASR base
21.98
ASR Sub
22.18
ASR without diacritics
17.02
The ASR model trained without diacritics yields the low-
est Word Error Rate (WER) of 17.02%, but this WER cannot
be compared with the two other ones: the lexical confusion is
drastically decreased since removing the diacritics reduce the
vocabulary size. Nevertheless, if the automatic transcriptions
without diacritics are less informative, these results show they
are more reliable. Although the diacritic substitution approach
did not outperform the base model, we consider it should be ex-
perimented within a cascade speech translation system, because
of a different distribution of ASR errors.
4535

5.3. Cascade speech translation
Cascade systems for speech translation consist of two key mod-
ules: ASR and MT. In our implementation, we used our trained
ASR models for the transcription module, followed by an end-
to-end text-to-text MT model based on the fine-tuning the
NLLB model. Fongbe was included in the NLLB pre-training
dataset. We fine-tuned it using the Huggingface [35] trainer.
To ensure a fair comparison, we conducted three separate fine-
tuning experiments, the first on Fongbe written with diacritics
and the second without diacritics and the third on substituted
Fongb´e. We evaluated the cascade model on the same test set
as the end-to-end model presented in the next section.
The fine-tuning of NLLB results yielded BLEU scores of
58.9, 57.56 and 47.39 on manual transcriptions, respectively
for the models with diacritics, with diacritics substitution and
without diacritics, on the validation subset of ASR containing
the Fongbe transcriptions and translations. These results un-
derscore the importance of diacritics in preserving contextual
understanding, particularly for tonal languages like Fongbe.
For the experiment using the ASR with the substitution
approach, we use a fine-tune the NLLB model on substituted
Fongb´e text to French. This step ensured that the translation
module received input with the correct diacritic markings. The
results of the experiments are summarized in Table 6.
Table 6: BLEU scores for the cascade systems on the test
dataset
Experiments
BLEU
ASR base + NLLB
32.76
ASR Sub + NLLB
37.23
ASR with diacritics + NLLB
39.60
The best result in the cascade training was achieved by the
AfriHuBERT model fine-tuned on ASR with diacritic, reach-
ing a BLEU score of 39.60. Additionally, we observed that
the substitution method holds significant potential as it comes
in the second position with the BLEU score of 37.23. These
experiments reveal that retaining diacritics is more critical for
translation of Fongbe than for its recognition, as diacritics pro-
vide additional linguistic information about segments that goes
beyond what the base syllables alone can convey. However,
further studies are needed to fully explore and optimize the sub-
stitution approach, as it could provide a viable pathway for im-
proving both efficiency and performance in speech recognition
and translation tasks.
5.4. End-to-end Speech translation
We conduct several experiments dedicated to the end-to-end ap-
proach. We investigated the use of different combinations of the
two speech encoders HuBERT-147 and AfriHuBERT with the
mBART and NLLB decoders .
All the models were trained on a single V100 32BG GPU
with a batch size of 2.We utilized the Adam optimizer and ran
the experiments over 50 epochs. To align the output length of
the HuBERT encoder with the input dimensions of the mBART
and NLLB decoders, we employed a feed-forward layer. During
inference, we applied a beam search with a width of 5 to gen-
erate translations. To improve our models performance, we ap-
plied three data augmentation techniques such as speed pertur-
bation, which slightly speeds up or slows down the audio, fre-
quency drop, which randomly removes certain frequency bands
Table 7: BLEU score of end-to-end speech-to-text translation
models
Experiments
Data Aug
Params
BLEU
AfriHuBERT-NLLB
No
962.1M
23.90
AfriHuBERT-NLLB
Yes
-
26.32
AfriHuBERT-mBART
No
553.8M
21.13
AfriHuBERT-mBART
Yes
-
24.30
and chunk drop, which deletes short segments of the audio sig-
nal. Since the models based on AfriHuBERT performed better
than the models based on HuBERT147, we report in Table 7
only the results reached by using AfriHuBERT as a speech
encoder. We notice that AfriHuBERT-NLLB achieved better
BLEU scores with data augmentation.
6. Conclusion
This work brings a significant advance for Fongbe speech pro-
cessing and highlights several avenues of future exploration. By
extending an existing dataset to 61 hours of high-quality audio
and aligned text, we offer the research community a unique and
richer resource to build and evaluate speech technologies for
Fongbe, a tonal and under-represented language. Our detailed
experiments in both cascade and end-to-end Speech Translation
reveal several important insights that can stimulate broader re-
search in low-resource language technologies.
Our best cascaded system (automatic speech recognition
followed by machine translation) achieved a BLEU score of
39.60. By comparison, the most effective end-to-end model
reached a lower, yet still encouraging, BLEU score of 26.32
when enhanced with data augmentation. This performance gap
is likely due to the models’ handling of tonal information, which
is only sparsely represented in the SSL speech encoder. Train-
ing an ASR component specifically on this tonal language al-
lows the system to capture tonal cues more accurately, thereby
improving downstream translation quality.
The expanded Fongbe corpus and our findings open several
possibilities for further research. First, improvements to dia-
critic substitution, by potentially using more granular markers
that capture subtle tonal shifts, could reduce ASR errors while
preserving key phonological cues for translation. Second, per-
sonalized or speaker-adaptive speech translation models, possi-
bly trained to handle specific dialectal variants, may substan-
tially enhance intelligibility and translation fidelity.
Finally,
future self-supervised or multilingual pre-training efforts will
benefit from explicitly including Fongbe data, leading to more
robust encoder–decoder architectures for low-resource African
languages.
Overall, this work not only delivers the largest corpus of
Fongbe audio currently available for speech recognition and
translation, but also highlights data-collection strategies, mod-
eling setups, and diacritic handling approaches that can be gen-
eralized to other tonal, underrepresented languages. We release
our dataset publicly to support further research3.
3https://huggingface.co/datasets/GbeBenin/FFSTC-2
4536

7. References
[1] C. Wang, H. Inaguma, P.-J. Chen, I. Kulikov, Y. Tang, W.-N. Hsu,
M. Auli, and J. Pino, “Simple and effective unsupervised speech
translation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.10191, 2022.
[2] D. Eberhard, G. Simons, and C. Fennig, Ethnologue: Languages
of the World, 24th Edition, 02 2021.
[3] I. Adebara and A. . a. Elmadany, “SERENGETI: Massively
multilingual language models for Africa.”
ACL, 2023. [Online].
Available: https://aclanthology.org/2023.findings-acl.97
[4] M. Bala, “© african literature and orality: A reading of ngugi wa
thiang’o’s wizard of the crow 2007,” JOURNAL OF ENGLISH
LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE, vol. 3, 03 2015.
[5] F. A. A. LAleye, L. Besacier, E. C. Ezin, and C. Motamed, “First
automatic fongbe continuous speech recognition system: Devel-
opment of acoustic models and language models.”
[6] D. F. Kponou, F. A. A. Laleye, and E. C. Ezin, “FFSTC: Fongbe to
French speech translation corpus,” in LREC-COLING 2024, 2024.
[7] M. Tachbelie, S. T. Abate, and L. Besacier.
[8] E. Gauthier, L. Besacier, S. Voisin, M. Melese, and U. P. Elingui,
“Collecting resources in sub-saharan african languages for auto-
matic speech recognition: a case study of wolof,” LREC, 2016.
[9] J. O. Alabi, X. Liu, D. Klakow, and J. Yamagishi, “Afrihubert:
A self-supervised speech representation model for african
languages,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.
20201
[10] M. Z. Boito and V. I. . al,
“mhubert-147:
A compact
multilingual hubert model,” 2024. [Online]. Available:
https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2406.06371
[11] A. Conneau, A. Baevski, R. Collobert, A. Mohamed, and
M. Auli, “Unsupervised cross-lingual representation learning
for speech recognition,”
2020. [Online]. Available:
https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2006.13979
[12] S. Bansal, H. Kamper, K. Livescu, A. Lopez, and S. Gold-
water, “Pre-training on high-resource speech recognition im-
proves low-resource speech-to-text translation,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1809.01431, 2018.
[13] X. Li, C. Wang, Y. Tang, C. Tran, Y. Tang, J. Pino, A. Baevski,
A. Conneau, and M. Auli, “Multilingual speech translation
with efficient finetuning of pretrained models,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2010.12829, 2020.
[14] M. C. Stoian, S. Bansal, and S. Goldwater, “Analyzing asr pre-
training for low-resource speech-to-text translation,” in ICASSP
2020-2020 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech
and Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2020, pp. 7909–7913.
[15] B. B. Odoom, N. Robinson, E. Rippeth, L. Tavarez-Arce, K. Mur-
ray, M. Wiesner, P. McNamee, P. Koehn, and K. Duh, “Can syn-
thetic speech improve end-to-end conversational speech transla-
tion?” in Proceedings of the 16th Conference of the Association
for Machine Translation in the Americas (Volume 1: Research
Track), 2024, pp. 167–177.
[16] J. Mbuya and A. Anastasopoulos, “GMU systems for the IWSLT
2023 dialect and low-resource speech translation tasks.” [Online].
Available: https://aclanthology.org/2023.iwslt-1.24
[17] M. Zanon Boito and J. . a. Ortega, “ON-TRAC consortium
systems for the IWSLT 2022 dialect and low-resource speech
translation tasks.”
Dublin, Ireland (in-person and online):
Association for Computational Linguistics. [Online]. Available:
https://aclanthology.org/2022.iwslt-1.28
[18] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A. N.
Gomez, L. Kaiser, and I. Polosukhin, “Attention is all you need,”
2023. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762
[19] D. F. Kponou, F. A. A. Laleye, and E. C. Ezin, “Systematic liter-
ature review and bibliometric analysis of low-resource speech-to-
text translation,” K. Arai, Ed.
Cham: Springer Nature Switzer-
land, pp. 379–398.
[20] Y. Liu, J. Gu, N. Goyal, X. Li, S. Edunov, M. Ghazvinine-
jad, M. Lewis, and L. Zettlemoyer, “Multilingual denoising
pre-training for neural machine translation,” 2020. [Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.08210
[21] N. Team, M. R. Costa-juss`a, and J. C. . al, “No language
left behind: Scaling human-centered machine translation,” 2022.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2207.04672
[22] K. J. Gbaguidi, “Taxinomie et analyse des erreurs linguistiques
des ´el`eves fonphones en apprentissage de franc¸ais : Pour une
approche linguistique et pragmatique en didactique des langues,”
Doctoral dissertation, EDP-UAC, 2009.
[23] B. Caron, “Tone and intonation,” in Corpus-based Studies of
Lesser-described Languages. The CorpAfroAs corpus of spoken
AfroAsiatic languages, 2015.
[24] Y. Xu, “Understanding tone from the perspective of production
and perception,” Language and Linguistics, vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 757–
797, 2004.
[25] C. B. Gnangu`enon, “Analyse syntaxique et s´emantique de la
langue ”fn” au b´enin en afrique de l’ouest,” Ph.D. dissertation,
Universit´e Cergy-Pontoise, France, 2014.
[26] R. Ardila, M. Branson, K. Davis, M. Henretty, M. Kohler,
J. Meyer, R. Morais, L. Saunders, F. M. Tyers, and G. Weber,
“Common voice: A massively-multilingual speech corpus,” 2020.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/1912.06670
[27] K. Fortun´e,
“Ayihoun.com,”
2024,
accessed:
2024-12-16.
[Online]. Available: https://ayihoun.com/
[28] A. Laurent, S. Gahbiche, H. Nguyen, H. Elleuch, F. Bougares,
A. Thiol, H. Riguidel, S. Mdhaffar, G. Laperri`ere, L. Maison
et al., “On-trac consortium systems for the iwslt 2023 dialectal
and low-resource speech translation tasks,” in Proceedings of the
20th International Conference on Spoken Language Translation
(IWSLT 2023), 2023, pp. 219–226.
[29] A. Babu, C. Wang, A. Tjandra, and K. L. . al, “Xls-r: Self-
supervised cross-lingual speech representation learning at scale,”
2021. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.09296
[30] W.-N.
Hsu,
B.
Bolte,
and
Y.-H.
H.
T.
.
al,
“Hubert:
Self-supervised
speech
representation
learning
by
masked
prediction of hidden units,” 2021. [Online]. Available: https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2106.07447
[31] J. O. Alabi, X. Liu, D. Klakow, and J. Yamagishi, “Afrihubert:
A self-supervised speech representation model for african
languages,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.
20201
[32] A. Baevski, H. Zhou, A. Mohamed, and M. Auli, “wav2vec
2.0:
A framework for self-supervised learning of speech
representations,” 2020. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/
2006.11477
[33] J. Devlin, M.-W. Chang, K. Lee, and K. Toutanova, “Bert:
Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language
understanding,” 2019. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/
1810.04805
[34] T. Kudo, “Sentencepiece: A simple and language independent
subword tokenizer and detokenizer for neural text processing,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:1808.06226, 2018.
[35] S. M. Jain, “Hugging face.”
Springer, 2022, pp. 51–67.
4537

