Speaker-specific Patterns of Phonetic Covariation in Korean Word-medial
Stops and the Role of Phonological and Morphological Contexts
Chloe D. Kwon1
1Department of Linguistics, Cornell University, USA
dk837@cornell.edu
Abstract
Individual speaker differences in speech have often been re-
garded as random, but growing evidence suggests that varia-
tion across speakers follows systematic patterns. Yet, it remains
an open question whether such structured variation is univer-
sal across languages, spans multiple phonetic dimensions, and
remains consistent across contexts. Korean word-medial stops
provide a compelling test case, as these stops are subject to ex-
tensive contextual variability. This study examines patterns in
individual speaker variation by analyzing the phonetic distri-
butions and covariation patterns between word-medial stops in
Seoul Korean in varying phonological and morphological con-
texts. The results show that while individual differences arise
in phonetic realization of these stops, speakers maintain struc-
tured covariation that allows stop categories to remain distinct
despite variability, providing further support for the phonetic
uniformity account.
Index Terms: individual speaker differences, phonetic covaria-
tion, contextual variation, phonetic uniformity
1. Introduction
The phonetic properties of speech sounds vary substantially
across speakers, and this variation often appears arbitrary. How-
ever, recent research has shown that speakers exhibit systematic
covariation across different sounds in a language, enabling pre-
dictions about the realization of one sound based on another.
For instance, [1] demonstrated that voice onset time (VOT) in
American English stop consonants is highly correlated across
places of articulation within individual speakers, suggesting that
phonetic variation reflects structured production patterns, gov-
erned by what has been termed phonetic uniformity [2]. While
previous studies provide compelling evidence for covariation, it
remains unclear whether such structured variation generalizes
to various languages, phonetic dimensions, and linguistic con-
texts. For example, prior research has focused on word-initial
stops, where phonological contrasts tend to be more robust [3],
yet greater variability is often observed in word-medial position
[4].
To address these gaps, the present study investigates Ko-
rean word-medial stops. If speakers exhibit consistent covaria-
tion in the phonetic properties of stop categories across various
phonological and morphological conditions, this will provide
further support for the phonetic uniformity principle, extending
it to a language without a typical voicing contrast and beyond
word-initial position. Moreover, such findings would suggest
that phonologically and morphologically conditioned phonetic
variation follows predictable patterns, reinforcing the idea that
speaker-specific but structured constraints govern phonetic re-
alization.
1.1. Phonetic characterization of Korean stops
Korean stop consonants are characterized by a three-way con-
trast among plain (lax/lenis), tense (fortis), and aspirated stops.
This contrast in the word-initial position is primarily realized
through differences in VOT and fundamental frequency (F0) at
the following vowel onset: plain stops show intermediate VOT
and lower F0 on the following vowel, tense stops show shortest
VOT and raise F0, and aspirated stops show longest VOT and
raise F0 [3].
While previous studies have primarily focused on word
and/or phrase-initial positions, a focus on word-medial posi-
tion is crucial because this is where the great degree of con-
textual variability occurs. Unlike word-initial stops, which are
often subject to domain-initial strengthening [3], word-medial
stops often undergo lenition [5] and neutralization that chal-
lenge phonological contrasts [6]. Investigating how speakers
maintain structured phonetic relationships in these contexts pro-
vides insights into how humans navigate variability in speech.
Korean serves as an excellent test case since its word-
medial stops exhibit great phonetic variability, particularly in
intervocalic and morpheme boundary positions. This variabil-
ity arises from intervocalic voicing of plain stops [7] and from
compound tensification, where the initial plain obstruent of the
second noun in a noun-noun compound surfaces as tense [8].
One key aspect of this variability is how phonetic properties
like closure duration and F0 onset at the following vowel inter-
act across contexts. Closure duration serves as a primary cue for
distinguishing Korean stops in word-medial position [9], while
F0 at the vowel onset remains a secondary cue more suscepti-
ble to prosodic effects [10]1. Given these patterns, the present
study investigates whether individual speakers maintain struc-
tured phonetic relationships across different phonological and
morphological contexts.
1.2. Phonetic uniformity principle
A framework for understanding structured phonetic realization
is phonetic uniformity [2]. This principle posits that speakers
aim for consistency in their phonetic realizations across dif-
ferent contexts, even when phonetic pressures favor variation.
Alongside factors such as auditory salience and articulatory
ease [12], phonetic uniformity contributes to shaping structured
relationships among related sounds. [1] provides evidence for
this in American English, showing that individual speakers ex-
hibit highly correlated voice onset time (VOT) values across
different stop consonants. Their later work [13] extends this
finding to sibilant fricatives, distinguishing between different
1This is different from word-initial stops, where F0 at the onset of
the following vowel has emerged as a primary cue due to ongoing tono-
genesis in Seoul Korean [11].
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
4773
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2465

types of uniformity. Similarly, [14] demonstrates covariation
in Japanese stop voicing contrasts, with strong within-cue rela-
tionships and weaker between-cue correlations across speakers.
Together, these findings suggest that phonetic uniformity oper-
ates as a constraint that gives rise to systematic, speaker-specific
patterns of phonetic realization.
To further test this notion, the current production study ex-
amines whether the key phonetic properties for word-medial
stops in Seoul Korean, closure duration and F0 onset of the
following vowel, follow a structured realization across speakers
and contexts in a controlled laboratory speech. If similar covari-
ation patterns are observed, this would provide additional sup-
port that the uniformity principle applies across languages and
phonetic dimensions, including F0. The results aligned with
previous findings, showing that while individual speaker differ-
ences were evident across closure duration and F0 onset, the
covariation patterns within these properties between stop cate-
gories remained systematic across speakers. However, the ex-
tent of this covariation differed by cue. Closure duration var-
ied significantly with phonological and morphological context,
whereas F0 onset appeared to be largely independent of these
factors. This contrast raises further questions about how these
distinct covariation patterns influence perception.
2. Methods
2.1. Stimuli
Participants read sentences containing 106 target words bal-
anced for stop types (plain, tense, aspirated, nasal), place of
articulation of the stops (POA; bilabial, alveolar), phonolog-
ical contexts (post-vowel, post-sonorant, post-obstruent), and
morphological contexts (simplex noun, compound). Each tar-
get word was embedded in a carrier sentence that included a
name, a case marker, and a verb, resulting in sentences ranging
from eight to ten syllables in length.
2.2. Data collection
Participants were 33 Seoul Korean L1 speakers with no reported
speech or hearing disorders. Seventeen of these speakers (12
female, 5 male) were recorded in the U.S., while the rest (11 fe-
male, 5 male) were recorded in Korea. Compared to the speak-
ers recorded in the U.S., those recorded in Korea did not have
extensive experience living abroad. All speakers were between
the ages of 19 and 39 and reported that they were raised in the
Seoul and/or Gyeonggi area in Korea where the Seoul variety is
spoken.
At the start of the experiment, participants reviewed the in-
structions with the experimenter and completed a set of practice
trials. They were instructed to avoid pausing between words or
phrases to maintain a natural speech rhythm. After the prac-
tice session, participants read sentences presented on the screen,
with all materials and interactions conducted entirely in Korean.
Each experimental block featured a unique, randomized set of
words. The experiment consisted of four blocks, resulting in a
total of 424 tokens per speaker.
2.3. Data processing
The dataset initially contained 13,992 tokens. After removing
424 tokens from one male speaker due to poor recording quality,
304 tokens for disfluencies or speech errors, 1,240 tokens for
being in a morphological context other than simplex nouns and
subordinate compounds, 12,024 tokens remained (85.9% of the
total). Forced alignment with Kaldi [15] was performed across
speakers, followed by manual adjustments of all tokens.
For closure duration analysis, 366 tokens with no closure
(e.g., spirantized plain stops) and 2,019 nasal stop tokens were
excluded.
Additionally, 1,022 tokens with unclear stop-stop
boundaries and 25 outliers were removed, leaving 7,628 tokens
(63.44%). F0 values were extracted from the vowels follow-
ing word-medial stops using a cross-correlation pitch-tracking
algorithm [16]. Extracted F0 values were removed if they ex-
hibited abrupt jumps relative to adjacent values or appeared as
isolated measurements (278 tokens). Additionally, 255 tokens
with fewer than three F0 values over the vowels were excluded,
as well as 80 outliers, leaving 11,477 observations (95.45%).
2.4. Analysis
2.4.1. Regression modeling of phonetic variation
To examine how closure duration and F0 onset vary across con-
texts, a Bayesian regression analysis was conducted in R [17]
using the brms package [18].
Closure duration and F0 on-
set values were z-scored and analyzed separately as response
variables. The models tested the effects of three main predic-
tors: Stop Type (plain, tense, aspirated), Morphological Context
(simplex, compound), and Preceding Context (non-high vowel,
obstruent, sonorant). In addition to the main predictors, Speech
Rate and Word-initial Type were included as covariates. Speech
Rate was calculated as the inverse of the difference between the
total duration of the utterance and the total duration of the stop,
a measure designed to minimize correlations with other factors
that could bias the coefficient estimates [19]. This measure was
scaled by the minimum and maximum speech rate to range from
0 to 1. Word-initial Type refers to the type of sound at the begin-
ning of a word, which influences the overall F0 level of the word
[20]. Using default priors, model selection was conducted in a
top-down approach, comparing various models with and with-
out each factor from the maximally specified model. The final
model included random effects, with a random slope for phono-
logical context grouped by subject, and a random intercept for
word item.2
2.4.2. Covariation patterns
Individual speakers’ covariation in closure duration and F0
onset between stop pairs was analyzed to identify systematic
speaker-specific patterns between stop categories. Covariation
provides information about how changes in one phonetic vari-
able influence another, offering a means to assess the relation-
ship between the phonetic realization of two sounds. To control
for speech rate effects, each response variable was fitted to a
linear regression model with speech rate in R. Residual values
from these models were then used to calculate individual speak-
ers’ means. Finally, Pearson correlation coefficients were com-
puted using these mean values, separately for each contextual
condition.
2The
selected
regression
models
are
as
follows:
Closure duration
∼
Stop Type ∗Preceding Context ∗
Morph Context
+
Stop POA
+
Speech Rate
+
Word-initial Type + (1 + Preceding Context|Subject) +
(1|Word);
F0 onset
∼
Stop Type ∗Precedin Context ∗
Morph Context + Gender + Stop POA + Speech Rate +
Word-initial Type + (1 + Stop Type|Subject) + (1|Word).
4774

3. Results
3.1. Distribution of phonetic properties
3.1.1. Closure duration of the word-medial stop
Speakers exhibited a wide variety of closure duration ranges,
with a speaker showing the widest range (163.56 ms) displaying
values twice as long as a speaker with the narrowest range (80.7
ms). Notably, male speakers showed shorter closure durations
compared to female speakers, despite no clear gender-based dif-
ferences in speech rate.
Speakers maintained this pattern of range across phono-
logical contexts. That is, speakers with short ranges exhibited
shorter ranges in different contexts as well, suggesting that they
operate within a consistent range of closure durations. Despite
the differences in range, all speakers were influenced by both
phonological and morphological contexts (Figure 1). In post-
vowel context (V V), speakers exhibited the longest mean clo-
sure durations for tense stops and the shortest for plain stops.
However, in post-obstruent context (O V), speakers showed
similar distributions of closure durations, with plain stops often
exceeding the durations of other stops. In post-sonorant (S V)
context, speakers preserved the distinction between stop types
in simplex nouns, while these distinctions were neutralized in
compounds.
Figure 1: Distributions of closure duration by subject. The first
three subjects show the narrowest range, and the last three sub-
jects show the widest range. Rows indicate phonological con-
texts, and columns indicate morphological contexts. The dotted
line shows the overall mean across speakers and conditions.
There was a clear subject-dependent pattern according
to the varying subject coefficients (σ(Intercept)=0.37, 95%
CI=[0.29, 0.47]). Negative correlations were observed between
the subject intercept and the effect of O V (σ(Intercept, O V)=-
0.56, 95% CI=[-0.77, -0.27]), and the subject intercept and the
effect of S V (σ(Intercept, S V)=-0.69, 95% CI=[-0.75, -0.44]).
These indicate that speakers with shorter tense durations are
more sensitive to the effects of O V and S V. On the other
hand, speakers with longer tense durations (i.e., higher inter-
cepts) were more resistant to the effects of the contexts, sug-
gesting that speakers with different baseline durations exhibit
different sensitivity to the preceding context effect.
3.1.2. F0 onset of the following vowel
Speakers also exhibited a wide variety of F0 onset ranges.
Similarly to closure duration, male speakers showed a nar-
rower range (narrowest: 35.94 Hz) compared to female speak-
ers (widest: 201.08 Hz). However, what is different from the
patterns of closure duration is that F0 onset overlapped between
stop categories across all contexts (Figure 2).
Figure 2: Distributions of F0 onset by subject. The first three
subjects exhibit the narrowest range, while the last three sub-
jects exhibit the widest range among female speakers. The for-
mat is consistent with Figure 1.
Nonetheless, the varying subject effects indicate substan-
tial speaker-level variation, with this model’s varying subject
intercept exceeding that of the closure duration model’s vary-
ing subject intercept (σ(Intercept)=0.47, 95% CI=[0.36, 0.61]).
The random slope effects for stop types showed slight vari-
ability, with the larger variation observed for aspirated stops
(σ(Aspirated)=0.13, 95% CI=[0.10, 0.18]) compared to plain
stops (σ(Plain)=0.08, 95% CI=[0.06, 0.11]). The correlation es-
timates between intercepts and stop types were weaker and less
consistent (r(Intercept, Plain)=-0.26, 95% CI=[-0.59, 0.11],
r(Intercept, Aspirated)=-0.20, 95% CI=[-0.53, 0.16], r(Plain,
Aspirated)=0.09, 95% CI=[-0.29, 0.45]), suggesting greater in-
dividual differences in the F0 onset realization irrespective of
linguistic contexts. The greater variance in the F0 onset model
and the weak correlations between intercepts and stop cate-
gories suggest that speaker-specific factors, independent of lin-
guistic context, play a more prominent role in shaping F0 pat-
terns than in shaping closure duration.
4775

3.2. Covariation patterns
3.2.1. Closure duration of the word-medial stop
Across all preceding contexts, a strong linear relationship
emerged between the individual speakers’ mean closure dura-
tions of word-medial plain and tense stops (Figure 3). Simi-
lar correlations were also observed between plain and aspirated
stops, as well as between tense and aspirated stops. These find-
ings indicate that while individual speakers vary in their overall
closure duration ranges, the relative durations of stop categories
remain systematically constrained. That is, if a speaker’s plain
stop duration is relatively short, their tense and aspirated stop
durations are also likely to be relatively short.
Figure 3: Covariation of subject-wise mean residualized closure
durations for plain and tense stops.
Regarding contextual effects, speakers’ mean durations are
distinctly patterned by phonological contexts.
For instance,
post-obstruent plain and tense stops occupy a dimension clearly
separable from post-sonorant plain and tense stops in Figure
3.
However, the strength of this covariation pattern varies
across contexts for all three stop pairs. For example, plain and
tense stop durations show the strongest correlation in the post-
obstruent context in simplex nouns (r = 0.85, p < 0.001), but
plain and aspirated stops show the weakest correlation in the
post-sonorant context in simplex nouns (r = 0.49, p < 0.05).
Understanding the underlying mechanisms driving this contex-
tual variation, as well as their perceptual implications for listen-
ers, requires further investigation.
The effect of morphological context is less salient. Post-
obstruent plain and tense stops in simplex nouns and com-
pounds occupy a similar region, whereas post-sonorant plain
and tense stops are clearly separable.
However, this pattern
aligns with expectations, given that post-obstruent tensification
[21] influences the realization of plain stops in both morpho-
logical contexts, while post-sonorant plain stops in compounds
are most likely to undergo compound tensification [8]. These
findings suggest that while morphological context plays a role,
its effects are more nuanced and largely shaped by the phonetic
realization of (morpho)phonological processes.
3.2.2. F0 onset of the following vowel
Unlike closure duration, F0 onset exhibited an almost perfectly
positive linear relationship across all contexts for vowels fol-
lowing all three pairs of stops. Figure 4 illustrates this relation-
ship, showing that speakers’ mean F0 onset values for vowels
following plain and tense stops largely overlap across contexts.
This consistently linear yet overlapping distribution suggests
that while F0 onset is constrained by speaker-specific patterns,
it is only marginally influenced by phonological and morpho-
logical contexts. Whether this reflects the reliability of F0 cues
remains to be investigated.
Figure 4: Covariation of subject-wise mean residualized F0 on-
set in vowels following plain and tense stops.
4. Discussion
The findings of this study demonstrate that phonetic variation
in Korean word-medial stops follows a structured, speaker-
specific pattern. While individual speakers consistently mod-
ulated closure duration based on phonological and morpholog-
ical contexts, strong covariation patterns indicate that speakers
maintain stable phonetic relationships between stops. In con-
trast, F0 onset patterns exhibited a different trend: although it
showed strong speaker-specific covariation, it varied indepen-
dently of phonological and morphological contexts. Further re-
search is needed to determine whether this pattern reflects the
reliability of F0 as a perceptual cue, particularly in light of the
ongoing tonogenesis in Seoul Korean [11].
Altogether, this study offers insights into not only how indi-
vidual speakers produce speech sounds in systematic patterns,
but also how listeners may process and interpret them. The ob-
served covariation within closure duration and F0 onset sug-
gests that speakers maintain an internal phonetic structure that
preserves relative relationships among stop categories, even as
absolute values shift due to contextual factors. This structured
covariation likely supports talker normalization, enabling lis-
teners to efficiently adjust for speaker-specific variability [1].
The relationship between these covariation patterns and listen-
ers’ perception warrants further investigation.
Another promising direction for future work is to examine
between-cue covariation, of how the coordination between mul-
tiple cues informs listeners’ perception of phonemic contrasts,
particularly when those contrasts are acoustically weak or am-
biguous [6]. Investigating these patterns can reveal how listen-
ers integrate information across cues to maintain perceptual sta-
bility, offering deeper insight into the mechanisms that support
robust speech perception in the face of variability.
4776

5. References
[1] E. Chodroff and C. Wilson, “Structure in talker-specific phonetic
realization: Covariation of stop consonant VOT in American En-
glish,” Journal of Phonetics, vol. 61, pp. 30–47, Jan. 2017.
[2] P. A. Keating, “Phonetic and other influences on voicing
contrasts,” 2003. [Online]. Available: https://api.semanticscholar.
org/CorpusID:16852724
[3] T. Cho and P. A. Keating, “Articulatory and acoustic studies on
domain-initial strengthening in Korean,” Journal of Phonetics,
vol. 29, pp. 155–190, 2001.
[4] C. D. Kwon, S. Tilsen, and J. Whitman, “Morpho-phonological
effects on the phonetic characteristics of tense consonants in
Korean compounds,” in Proceedings of the 20th International
Congress of Phonetic Sciences, 2023.
[5] L. M. Lavoie, Consonant strength: Phonological patterns and
phonetic manifestations.
Routledge, 2001.
[6] S. Oh, “Incomplete neutralization in Articulatory Phonology,”
Ph.D. dissertation, City University of New York, 2022.
[7] D. J. Silva, “The phonetics and phonology of stop lenition in
Korean,” Doctoral dissertation, Cornell University, Ithaca, USA,
1992.
[8] H.-S. Jeon, “Exploring variability in compound tensification in
Seoul Korean,” Language and Speech, vol. 66, pp. 214–245, 2023.
[9] J.-I. Han, “The phonetics and phonology of tense and plain con-
sonants in Korean,” Doctoral dissertation, Cornell University,
Ithaca, USA, 1996.
[10] C. D. Kwon and S. Tilsen, “The interplay of phonological, mor-
phological, and speaker-specific factors in the phonetic variabil-
ity of Korean word-medial stops,” 2025, abstract presented at the
Penn Linguistics Conference, April 2025.
[11] H.-Y. Bang, M. Sonderegger, Y. Kang, M. Clayards, and T.-J.
Yoon, “The emergence, progress, and impact of sound change
in progress in Seoul Korean: Implications for mechanisms of
tonogenesis,” Journal of Phonetics, vol. 66, pp. 120–144, 2018.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.wocn.2017.09.005
[12] B. Lindblom, Explaining Phonetic Variation:
A Sketch of
the H&H Theory.
Dordrecht:
Springer Netherlands, 1990,
pp.
403–439.
[Online].
Available:
https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-94-009-2037-8 16
[13] E. Chodroff and C. Wilson, “Uniformity in phonetic realization:
Evidence from sibilant place of articulation in American English,”
Language, vol. 98, no. 2, pp. 250–289, Jun. 2022.
[14] J. Tanner, M. Sonderegger, and J. Stuart-Smith, “Structured
speaker variability in Japanese stops: Relationships within ver-
sus aross cues to stop voicing,” Journal of Acoustical Society of
America, vol. 148, pp. 793–804, Aug. 2020.
[15] D. Povey, A. Ghoshal, G. Boulianne, L. Burget, O. Glembek,
N. Goel, M. Hannemann, P. Motlicek, Y. Qian, P. Schwarz,
J. Silovsky, G. Stemmer, and K. Vesely, “The Kaldi Speech
Recognition Toolkit,” in IEEE 2011 Workshop on Automatic
Speech Recognition and Understanding. IEEE Signal Processing
Society, Dec. 2011, iEEE Catalog No.: CFP11SRW-USB.
[16] L. R. Rabiner and R. W. Schafer, Digital Processing of Speech
Signals, ser. Signal Processing Series.
Upper Saddle River, NJ:
Prentice Hall, 1978.
[17] R Core Team, R: A Language and Environment for Statistical
Computing, R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna,
Austria, 2024. [Online]. Available: https://www.R-project.org/
[18] P.-C. B¨urkner, “brms: An R Package for Bayesian Multilevel
Models Using Stan,” Journal of Statistical Software, vol. 80,
no. 1, pp. 1–28, 2017. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.
18637/jss.v080.i01
[19] S. Tilsen and M. Tiede, “Parameters of unit-based measures of
speech rate,” Speech Communication, vol. 150, pp. 73–97, May
2023.
[20] S.
Cho
and
Y.-C.
Lee,
“The
effect
of
the
consonant-
induced pitch on Seoul Korean intonation,” Linguistic Research,
vol. 33,
pp. 299–317,
2016. [Online]. Available:
https:
//api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:151820039
[21] S. Kim, H. Mitterer, and T. Cho, “A time course of prosodic
modulation in phonological inferencing:
The case of korean
post-obstruent tensing,” PLOS ONE, vol. 13, p. e0202912, 2018.
[Online]. Available: https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=
10.1371/journal.pone.0202912
4777
