Enabling the replicability of speech synthesis perceptual evaluations
S´ebastien Le Maguer1, Gw´enol´e Lecorv´e2, Damien Lolive3, Naomi Harte4, Juraj ˇSimko1
1University of Helsinki, Finland
2Orange Research, France
3IRISA, Universit´e Bretagne Sud, France
4Sigmedia Group, School of Engineering, Trinity College Dublin, Ireland
sebastien.lemaguer@helsinki.fi
Abstract
How speech synthesis is evaluated is nowadays questioned.
Not only have conventional listening tests as a whole been
proven a poor match for modern synthesis, but more fundamen-
tally, important information (e.g., the question asked to the lis-
tener) is frequently missing in the report of the outcome of the
evaluation despite the impact on the interpretation of the test
results. This can lead to uncertainty about the validity of these
evaluations. To address this issue, we propose standardising the
structure of any evaluation report. To facilitate this standardi-
sation, our contribution is twofold: an open-source subjective
evaluation platform; and a set of reporting guidelines. The plat-
form is designed to enable the development of easily shareable
evaluation recipes. The set of guidelines complements the plat-
form to support researchers in reporting their evaluation choices
and analysis in more detail while relying on the recipe to de-
scribe the actual evaluation process.
Index Terms: speech synthesis evaluation, replicability, open
science, evaluation platform, evaluation guidelines
1. Introduction
Standard speech synthesis evaluation methodologies have
shown their limitations. Although recent models are capa-
ble of producing synthetic speech with unprecedented human
likeness, several studies have demonstrated and emphasised
the limits of standard protocols such as Mean Opinion Score
(MOS) [1, 2, 3] and MUltiple Stimuli with Hidden Reference
and Anchors (MUSHRA) [4]. The research community is now
well aware of this issue and has been investigating alternative
protocols such as [5]. However, a more fundamental problem
with evaluation must be addressed.
In 2015, Wester et Al. [6] demonstrated that researchers do
not report sufficient details about their evaluation. Almost ten
years after these conclusions, Kirkland et al. reported that this
trend remains predominant in the field [1]. These two studies
emphasise that important details are missing from the descrip-
tion of the evaluation protocol. For example, Kirkland et al. [1]
noted that researchers omit to provide the precise question asked
to the listener. They also demonstrated that the phrasing of
this question has a strong impact on the ratings, and therefore
show the danger of omitting such critical information. Edlund
et al. [7] pushed this reflection further by proving that the fram-
ing of an evaluation will have a strong impact on its outcome.
In conclusion, these studies pose the fundamental question of
the scientific foundations of the reporting of our evaluation out-
comes.
In 2019, the US academies of Sciences, Engineering and
Medicine were requested to provide a set of recommendations
about reproducibility and replicability in Science overall. The
resulting report [8] defines these two concepts as follows:
Reproducibility is obtaining consistent results using
the same input data ; computational steps, methods, and
code; and conditions of analysis.
Replicability is obtaining consistent results across stud-
ies aimed at answering the same scientific question, each of
which has obtained its own data.
From these definitions, two key observations emerge:
Point 1 Reproducibility of a subjective evaluation is not
achievable due to the impact of human participants on the
evaluation: Human participants can’t take a subjective evalu-
ation twice, as they will be influenced by the first run during
the second one; and new human participants are different by
nature; Hence, the present paper will focus on replicability,
not reproducibility;
Point 2 A less obvious aspect of these definitions is that the
evaluation should align with the hypothesis posed behind the
evaluated proposition. Overall evaluation may show an im-
provement of the synthesis due to the methodology, but it is
necessary to design an evaluation to ensure that this improve-
ment is indeed the result of addressing the identified problem.
Some propositions have emerged to improve the replicabil-
ity of the evaluation. The most notable is the TTS arena [9],
aiming to provide a unique framework to evaluate the natural-
ness of synthetic speech under general conditions using a pref-
erence test. While this is a notable step forward, we think we
need to go beyond this proposition: modern synthetic speech
cannot be evaluated in a one-for-all setup, and the target task
will have a strong impact on the evaluation outcome [7]. Fur-
thermore, evaluation protocols will evolve, and new protocols
will be designed. This evolution will be necessary as the quality
of modern synthesisers has now saturated the evaluation capa-
bilities of standard protocols [3], and we are in crucial need to
address Point 2. Therefore, we need tools and practices which
are flexible enough to preempt this evolution.
This is why, to enable the replicability of speech synthe-
sis perceptual evaluations and following the recommendations
of [1, 3, 6], we propose to standardise the structure of any eval-
uation report into three complementary parts: 1. the evaluation
protocol itself, which has to be referenced, presented and justi-
fied; 2. the evaluation recipe encompassing the evaluation pro-
cedure and the anonymised data of the conducted evaluation;
3. the critical analysis and report of the evaluation outcome.
Based on this decomposition, the evaluation protocol and the
analysis of its outcome should be extensively presented in the
publication, while the recipe can be shared as supplementary
material.
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2545 10.21437/Interspeech.2025-401

The contribution of this paper is to propose a first step
toward the implementation of this new standard. Firstly, we
present replikant1 (a refactoring of FlexEval [10]), an open-
source platform designed to share recipes for any researcher to
replicate an evaluation campaign. Secondly, we propose a set
of high-level guidelines for conference reviewers so they can
assess the validity of the evaluation report.
2. Why replikant: a survey of existing
evaluation tools
To conduct a speech synthesis subjective evaluation campaign,
researchers can rely on a diverse set of tools. First, an open-
source platform has been developed for the Blizzard Chal-
lenge [11]. Although being open and very stable, the script
constituents of this platform are difficult to extend and deploy.
A second solution is WebMUSHRA [12]. In contrast to the
scripts of the Blizzard challenge, WebMUSHRA is a fully in-
tegrated platform. The maintainers of WebMUSHRA also pro-
vide full support for the standard protocols (MOS, MUSHRA,
AB(X)-test). Despite its qualities, introducing a new test is
cumbersome as it requires developers to deeply modify the
server code in addition to designing the user interface. Easy-
to-use alternatives are survey-based tools such as SurveyMon-
key [13], Alchemer [14] (previously known as SurveyGizmo) or
Gorilla [15]. These solutions face several drawbacks. Not only
are they generally proprietary and require a subscription, they
also do not provide an easy way to share a dedicated evaluation.
The main exception is Gorilla. Gorilla supports an easy design
and sharing process of conducted evaluation, but it still requires
a substantial fee. Finally, researchers can also consider the use
of annotation tools. This can be justified as the current set of
evaluation methodologies consists of annotating samples with
a score (for MOS or MUSHRA) or implicitly with a flag (pre-
ferred / not preferred for the AB-test). The most complete repre-
sentative of the annotation tools is Label Studio [16]. However,
this solution is proprietary and designed as a fully integrated
annotation solution. In other words, adapting Label Studio for
the purpose of subjective evaluation is a complex process. Fi-
nally, the closest solution to our needs is the open source im-
plementation of the P.808 [17], but it is not designed to support
easily shareable recipes. To summarize, researchers do not have
an adequate tool to ensure an easy way to properly share their
evaluation resources.
3. Overview of replikant
As part of their discussion, Kirkland et al. [1] suggested “to
maintain shared tools and platforms for TTS evaluation”. In
this section, we describe our contribution to address this sug-
gestion as the goal of replikant is to enable researchers
to share evaluation recipes in order to ensure the replicability
of subjective evaluations. To present this platform, we con-
sider the points of view of the three main actors: the designer,
the maintainer and the user. Our aim is that this presentation
serves as an entry point for the platform. First, from the de-
signer’s perspective, compromises had to be made and have
conditioned some development choices. These choices are pre-
sented in Section 3.1. As a maintainer, it is necessary to un-
derstand the core architecture of a platform. Section 3.2 is
dedicated to the presentation of an overview of the core ar-
chitecture of replikant While more technical, we consider
1https://github.com/seblemaguer/replikant
this section to be necessary as we hope that the community
will help support replikant. in Section 3.2, we present an
overview of the core architecture ofreplikant. Finally, a re-
searcher who wants to use the platform will mostly be interested
in Section 3.3, which describes the composition of an evaluation
recipe.
3.1. Development choices
In order to develop replikant, we followed some design
principles resulting from realistic choices and compromises.
The first and foremost principle is openness. The goal of
replikant is to facilitate the design and implementation of
a subjective evaluation recipe easily shareable with the com-
munity. Promoting open-science, shareable recipes have been
popularised in speech technology by Kaldi [18] and are now
common in several standard toolkits [19, 20]. The goal of the
platform is to provide all the underlying mechanics to run such
a recipe.
The second principle is stability. As we aim to develop a
standard evaluation platform, we need to ensure its longevity
and maintainability. To facilitate this process, we rely on well-
maintained standard tools and libraries such as Python, SQLite,
Flask and Jinja2. This allows us to reduce the workforce re-
quired to maintain the core of the platform. For the same rea-
sons, and in contrast to more complex tools such as Gorilla
or Label Studio, we do not provide a Graphical User Interface
(GUI) frontend to design a test. While it is possible to develop
one, providing a GUI would require an important development
and maintenance effort on our side. This would jeopardise the
maintenance of the tool and go against the stability principle.
As a result, a minimal set of coding skills is required to imple-
ment an evaluation campaign. These coding skills mainly in-
volve standard Web technologies (HTML, CSS and JavaScript)
as well as beginner-level skills in Python and Jinja2. We aim to
keep this minimal by providing a set of standard recipes already
used in published evaluation campaigns.
Finally, the last principle is flexibility. This is achieved by
ensuring that replikant is modular on two fronts. First, the
core of the platform is designed around activities. Let’s con-
sider an evaluation campaign such as the ones conducted for the
Blizzard Challenge [11]. The evaluation is composed of differ-
ent sections (collecting participant information, similarity test,
naturalness test, ...) An activity is the software equivalent of the
type of operation required to run one section of the evaluation.
The current implementation already provides a set of activities
(e.g., authentication compatible with the online platform Pro-
lific [21]). This set can easily be extended by any developers
by ensuring that a new type of activity respects some conven-
tions. The second front is the structure of an evaluation recipe.
Mainly, a recipe is organised into steps (e.g., registration of user
information, explanations, listening to a sample, etc.), and each
step is associated with an HTML template. By heavily relying
on the possibilities offered by Jinja2, a template can be freely
decomposed into fundamental elements, such as different types
of audio and video players, different sets of scales and instruc-
tions or MUSHRA sliders. These elements can easily be reused,
adapted or extended. To facilitate backwards compatibility, we
purposefully impose a minimal set of conventions about a recipe
encoded in the platform. This set will be explained in the next
sections.
2546

core
activities admin units
Campaign
Config ActivityGraph
Activity
Scope
ParticipantScope AdminScope
AssetProvider
TemplateProvider
AuthProvider
TaskFormPageAuthx1 ExportDB Panelx2
Figure 1: Simplified class diagram presenting the organization of replikant. As Python does not provide interfaces, the real-
ization arrow is used to indicate that the ”realization class” corresponds to flask implementation package. The classes Scope,
ParticipantScope, AdminScope and Activity are all abstract classes.
3.2. Software architecture
Figure 1 presents a simplified class diagram summarizing the
architecture of replikant.
The core of replikant is centred around the campaign
instance (class Campaign). The campaign instance acts as the
coordinator. It is in charge of preparing and executing an eval-
uation. To do so, it relies on the recipe’s main configuration
(instanciated using class Config) to instantiate the required
activities (Activity), create and then start the evaluation.
A fundamental concept of replikant is the
scope ( Scope). From a software perspective, its purpose
is to instantiate the templates to obtain the User Interface (UI),
prepare the assets (e.g., audio, images or videos) and ensure
that the authentication is validated (if required). We currently
distinguish two scopes: the AdminScope is the base for
all the administration interactions (such as the export of the
database ExportDB), the ParticipantScope for all the
interactions of the standard participants during the evaluation.
Each Activity is associated with a ParticipantScope.
The campaign instance uses the configuration of the recipe to
instantiate the required activities. It then creates the execution
graph of activities (instance of ActivityGraph). This
execution graph corresponds to the evaluation as presented to
the participant.
In the current implementation, we distinguish four types of
activities: a simple page (class Page) without any information
to be collected, a form (class Form) which corresponds to fixed
information to be collected, an authentication page (Auth), and
an actual evaluation task (class Task). The implementation of
an activity follows the Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern.
It relies on the combination Jinja2 templates and an instance
of ParticipantScope for the view and on an instance of
a Activity acting as the controller. Furthermore, we imple-
mented the controller and the model to support dynamic data
creation. By doing so, and relying on the functionalities pro-
vided by Jinja2, we allow the user to control the form and the
simple page by only implementing the templates in the recipe.
Finally, the class Task is the software implementation of
an evaluation step. This implementation is as generic as pos-
sible. This is necessary to not only facilitate the integration of
new protocols, but also to allow the use of multiple protocols
in one evaluation. Consequently, we impose a generic structure
to store the data collected during an evaluation: the timestamp,
the index of the step in the test, the sample identifier, the na-
ture of the information to be stored and its value. This structure
also enables more dynamic data to be collected (e.g., number
of clicks in the case of a behavioural evaluation). We also del-
egate to the platform to manage the selection, randomisation,
and filename obfuscation of the samples. Combining these two
constraints with the use of Jinja2 template to design the UI and
to define the information to be stored, we do not require the user
to modify the platform to introduce a new protocol.
3.3. The shareable evaluation recipe
Having presented the architecture of replikant, we can now
focus on the reason for proposing this platform: the recipe to
be shared. A recipe has to be self-contained and therefore com-
posed of three parts: the evaluated material (what is evaluated),
the UI and the configuration (how the evaluation is conducted),
and the database (the raw outcome of the evaluation campaign).
The structure of a recipe is partially imposed as it should
contain the following files and directories:
config.yaml the entry-point of a recipe (it is the input config-
uration parsed by Config to feed the campaign instance).
It is composed of three sections: the overall section defining
the global variables as well as the entry point of the evalua-
tion, the administration configuration including the password
required to download the data of the evaluation, the activ-
ity graph describing the different phases of the evaluation.
As noted previously, each phase can either be a simple page
shown to the participant, a form for the participant to fill out,
or an evaluation task. For the configuration of an evaluation
task, it is also necessary to reference which systems will be
evaluated;
systems the directory containing all the evaluated material.
This is composed of two parts: a set of CSV files (one per
system) referencing the material to be evaluated and the ac-
tual material (i.e., text, audio, video or images);
templates the directory containing the user templates. This is
the place where the designer of the test can introduce new
templates (referenced in the root configuration) or override a
default template. Jinja2 facilitates the implementation of this
functionality: to override a template, the designer of the test
simply needs to create a template in this directory using the
exact same name as the original;
assets the directory containing the assets aside from the evalu-
ated material. This includes logos, material used as reference
(e.g. for similarity tests) or any files which need to be used
as is.
2547

Finally, the database which maintains the current state of a cam-
paign once it has been started (e.g., progress of participant,
number of evaluations for each sample, each system) is han-
dled by the platform. This includes its creation, which is based
on the provided recipe configuration. However, when the cam-
paign is over, it is the responsibility of the designer of the test
to include the database as part of the recipe to ensure the repli-
cability of the evaluation campaign.
Recipes for the speech synthesis evaluation standard pro-
tocols are already implemented (MOS, MUSHRA, AB-test,
Rapid Prosody Transcription (RPT) [22, 23]). Recipes for eval-
uation purposes beyond speech synthesis, such as video sum-
marisation, are also implemented. These recipes are shared as
part of the platform, and some have already been presented in
published work [3, 24, 25].
4. Reporting guidelines
As we have seen in the introduction, the primary purpose of an
evaluation is to prove/disprove a hypothesis. To assess the valid-
ity of the evaluation, we need to ensure that it is fully replicable.
replikant aims to enable researcher to improve the replica-
bility of their evaluation. However, even without using this plat-
form, researchers still have to share their evaluations and docu-
ment their choices. To facilitate this documentation, we propose
a set of guidelines primarily addressed to the conference review-
ers. Researchers should consider these guidelines as a checklist
to comply with. We keep these guidelines fairly high-level as
we do not aim to burden the reviewers. These guidelines are
not meant to be a rigid canvas. The final say remains with the
reviewers, and they should feel free to deviate from these guide-
lines when they fail to capture the peculiarities of a presented
evaluation. Due to space constraints, we will not develop the
reasoning behind each item but this list is compiled based on
the requirements from standard recommendations such as the
P.800 [26] and the P.85 [27] as well as meta-analyses such as
Kirkland et al. [1] and Wester et al. [6]. We refer the readers to
these publications for more details.
4.1. The evaluation campaign
The foundation of an evaluation campaign is the protocol(s) it
relies on. Researchers should carefully refer to the publication
describing the chosen protocol, justifying why this protocol has
been chosen and ensure the readers understand its implications.
To ensure this, reviewers should assess the following items:
□ Is the reference of the protocol provided? or, if it is a
new protocol, is it fully described?
□ If an existing protocol, is it correctly implemented?
□ Is the choice of the protocol justified in relation to the
contribution of the submission?
□ Are the modifications or the design of the protocol jus-
tified?
□ Are the limitations of the protocol in relation to the con-
tribution of the submission analysed?
Assuming the protocol is properly described and justified,
the second main source of bias is the material used. To assess
the material, the reviewer should assess the following items:
□ Is the set of compared systems open-sourced? If not,
is there enough description to replicate the implementa-
tion?
□ Are the selected systems relevant for the comparison?
□ Is the dataset used for the evaluation described and jus-
tified in relation to the goal of the evaluation?
□ Are the potential biases of the dataset analysed?
As we are dealing with human evaluation, it is also criti-
cal to describe and analyse the selected cohort of participants.
While using many listeners can lead to statistically significant
results, it is also critical that researchers analyse how a cohort
of participants may approach the test. We propose that the re-
viewer assesses the following items:
□ Is the number of participants appropriate for the proto-
col?
□ Is the description of participants sufficiently detailed for
the goal of the analysis?
□ Are the listeners qualified to evaluate the tested hypoth-
esis (e.g., are they native or non-native)?
□ Is the cohort of listeners well-balanced or is it justified?
4.2. The analysis of the outcome
Having tackled the description of a recipe and the description
of the evaluation design, the last point to address is the analysis
of the results of the evaluation. To do so, we propose that the
reviewers assess the following items in order to ensure that re-
searchers do not overclaim the impact of their proposition and
do not miss any potential bias:
□ Do the conclusions address the evaluated hypothesis?
□ Is the statistical test adequate?
□ Do the conclusions consider the limitations of the pro-
tocol?
□ Is there any potential unexpected effect besides the main
target captured by the protocol?
5. Conclusion
In this paper, we have proposed a standardised structure of an
evaluation report in order to improve the replicability of speech
synthesis evaluations. This structure decomposes the report into
two complementary elements: the actual report and the shared
recipe containing all data required to replicate the evaluation as
supplementary material. To promote the development of such
recipes, we designed and presented a dedicated open-source
platform. The guidelines are independent of the platform, as
researchers need to produce replicable subjective evaluations
independently of the tools used during the campaign. This is
a starting point. While we will ensure the development of the
platform is compatible with future standards, we, as a scien-
tific community, must also ensure that these standards are ad-
equately respected and constantly questioned. In other words,
the presented guidelines will have to be continuously adapted to
meet the future requirements of research in speech synthesis.
2548

6. Acknowledgements
The authors would like to thank the members of the team
EXPRESSION who impulsed the development of FlexEval.
The authors also would like to thank E. Cooper, C. Valentini-
Botinao, O. Watts, S. King, P. Oplustil-Gallegos, D. Wells
for the discussions which fueled the development of the
platform and the methodologies. S. Le Maguer is funded by
the Academy of Finland project #357262 - Predictive
Processing Approach to Modelling Prosodic
Hierarchy for Speech Synthesis . This work
was also partially conducted with the financial support
of Irish Research Council (IRC) under Grant Agree-
ment No. 208222/15425 and at the ADAPT SFI under
Grant No. 13/RC/2106_P2 .
7. References
[1] A. Kirkland, S. Mehta, H. Lameris, G. E. Henter, E. Szekely,
and J. Gustafson, “Stuck in the mos pit: A critical analy-
sis of mos test methodology in tts evaluation,” in 12th ISCA
Speech Synthesis Workshop (SSW2023) , 2023, pp. 41–47. doi:
10.21437/SSW.2023-7
[2] E. Cooper, W.-C. Huang, Y . Tsao, H.-M. Wang, T. Toda, and J. Ya-
magishi, “A review on subjective and objective evaluation of syn-
thetic speech,”Acoustical Science and Technology, p. e24.12, Apr.
2024. doi: 10.1250/ast.e24.12
[3] S. Le Maguer, S. King, and N. Harte, “The limits of the
Mean Opinion Score for speech synthesis evaluation,” Com-
puter Speech & Language , vol. 84, p. 101577, Mar. 2024. doi:
10.1016/j.csl.2023.101577
[4] S. Zieli ´nski, P. Hardisty, C. Hummersone, and F. Rumsey, “Poten-
tial biases in mushra listening tests,” inAudio Engineering Society
Convention 123. Audio Engineering Society, 2007.
[5] D. Wells, A. L. Aldana Blanco, C. Valentini, E. Cooper,
A. Pine, J. Yamagishi, and K. Richmond, “Experimental eval-
uation of mos, ab and bws listening test designs,” in In-
terspeech 2024 , 2024. ISSN 2958-1796 pp. 2695–2699. doi:
10.21437/Interspeech.2024-1778
[6] M. Wester, C. Valentini-Botinhao, and G. E. Henter, “Are
we using enough listeners? no! — an empirically-
supported critique of interspeech 2014 tts evaluations,” in In-
terspeech 2015 , 2015. ISSN 2958-1796 pp. 3476–3480. doi:
10.21437/Interspeech.2015-689
[7] J. Edlund, C. T ˚annander, S. Le Maguer, and P. Wagner, “Assess-
ing the impact of contextual framing on subjective tts quality,”
in Interspeech 2024, 2024. ISSN 2958-1796 pp. 1205–1209. doi:
10.21437/Interspeech.2024-781
[8] National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine,
Policy and Global Affairs, Committee on Science, Engineering,
Medicine, and Public Policy, Board on Research Data and Infor-
mation, Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences, Commit-
tee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics, Board on Mathematical
Sciences and Analytics, Division on Earth and Life Studies, Nu-
clear and Radiation Studies Board, and Division of Behavioral and
Social Sciences and Education, Reproducibility and Replicability
in Science. Washington, D.C., DC: National Academies Press,
Oct. 2019.
[9] V . Srivastav, C. Fourrier, L. Pouget, Y . Lacombe, main, and
S. Gandhi, “Text to speech arena,” https://huggingface.co/spaces/
TTS-AGI/TTS-Arena, 2024.
[10] C. Fayet, A. Blond, G. Coulombel, C. Simon, D. Lolive,
G. Lecorv ´e, J. Chevelu, and S. Le Maguer, “Flexeval, cr ´eation
de sites web l ´egers pour des campagnes de tests perceptifs mul-
tim´edias,” in 6e conf ´erence conjointe Journ ´ees d’ ´Etudes sur la
Parole (JEP , 33e´edition). ATALA; AFCP, 2020, pp. 22–25.
[11] S. King and V . Karaiskos, “The blizzard challenge 2012,”
in The Blizzard Challenge 2012 , 2012, pp. 1–11. doi:
10.21437/Blizzard.2012-1
[12] M. Schoeffler, S. Bartoschek, F.-R. St ¨oter, M. Roess, S. Westphal,
B. Edler, and J. Herre, “webmushra — a comprehensive frame-
work for web-based listening tests,” Journal of Open Research
Software, vol. 6, no. 1, p. 8, Feb. 2018. doi: 10.5334/jors.187
[13] “SurveyMonkey: The World’s Most Popular Survey Platform,”
Dec. 2024, [Online; accessed 2. Dec. 2024]. [Online]. Available:
https://www.surveymonkey.com
[14] “Alchemer: Enterprise Online Survey Software & Tools,” Nov.
2024, [Online; accessed 2. Dec. 2024]. [Online]. Available:
https://www.alchemer.com
[15] A. L. Anwyl-Irvine, J. Massonni ´e, A. Flitton, N. Kirkham, and
J. K. Evershed, “Gorilla in our midst: An online behavioral exper-
iment builder,” Behav. Res. Methods, vol. 52, no. 1, pp. 388–407,
Feb. 2020. doi: 10.3758/s13428-019-01237-x
[16] M. Tkachenko, M. Malyuk, A. Holmanyuk, and N. Liubimov,
“Label Studio: Data labeling software,” 2020-2024, [Online;
accessed 2. Dec. 2024]. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/
HumanSignal/label-studio
[17] B. Naderi and R. Cutler, “An open source implementa-
tion of itu-t recommendation p.808 with validation,” in In-
terspeech 2020 , 2020. ISSN 2958-1796 pp. 2862–2866. doi:
10.21437/Interspeech.2020-2665
[18] D. Povey, A. Ghoshal, G. Boulianne, L. Burget, O. Glembek,
N. Goel, M. Hannemann, P. Motlicek, Y . Qian, P. Schwarzet al.,
“The kaldi speech recognition toolkit,” inIEEE 2011 workshop on
automatic speech recognition and understanding. IEEE Signal
Processing Society, 2011.
[19] S. Watanabe, T. Hori, S. Karita, T. Hayashi, J. Nishitoba, Y . Unno,
N. Enrique Yalta Soplin, J. Heymann, M. Wiesner, N. Chen,
A. Renduchintala, and T. Ochiai, “ESPnet: End-to-end speech
processing toolkit,” in Proceedings of Interspeech , 2018, pp.
2207–2211. doi: 10.21437/Interspeech.2018-1456
[20] M. Ravanelli, T. Parcollet, A. Moumen, S. de Langen, C. Subakan,
P. Plantinga, Y . Wang, P. Mousavi, L. D. Libera, A. Ploujnikov,
F. Paissan, D. Borra, S. Zaiem, Z. Zhao, S. Zhang, G. Karakasidis,
S.-L. Yeh, P. Champion, A. Rouhe, R. Braun, F. Mai, J. Zuluaga-
Gomez, S. M. Mousavi, A. Nautsch, H. Nguyen, X. Liu, S. Sagar,
J. Duret, S. Mdhaffar, G. Laperri`ere, M. Rouvier, R. D. Mori, and
Y . Est`eve, “Open-source conversational ai with speechbrain 1.0,”
Journal of Machine Learning Research , vol. 25, no. 333, 2024.
[Online]. Available: http://jmlr.org/papers/v25/24-0991.html
[21] “Prolific | Quickly find research participants you can trust,”
Dec. 2024, [Online; accessed 2. Dec. 2024]. [Online]. Available:
https://www.prolific.com
[22] E. Gutierrez, P. Oplustil-Gallegos, and C. Lai, “Location, Loca-
tion: Enhancing the Evaluation of Text-to-Speech synthesis us-
ing the Rapid Prosody Transcription Paradigm,” in Proc. 11th
ISCA Speech Synthesis Workshop (SSW 11), 2021, pp. 25–30. doi:
10.21437/SSW.2021-5
[23] J. Cole and S. Shattuck-Hufnagel, “New methods for prosodic
transcription: Capturing variability as a source of information,”
Laboratory Phonology , vol. 7, no. 1, p. 8, Jun. 2016. doi:
10.5334/labphon.29
[24] K. Hiovain-Asikainen, A. Suni, and S. Le Maguer, “Neural text-
to-speech for north s´ami: Development and evaluation,” in Saami
Linguistics Symposium (SAALS 6). Helsinki, Finland: University
of Helsinki, Nov. 2024.
[25] S. Kotey, “Multimodal Summarization in Natural Language
Conversations,” Ph.D. dissertation, Trinity College Dublin.
School of Computer Science & Statistics. Discipline of
Computer Science, Dublin, Ireland, 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://www.tara.tcd.ie/handle/2262/111819?show=full
[26] ITU, “Methods for subjective determination of transmission qual-
ity,” International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Geneva, ITU-
T Recommendation P.800, 1996.
[27] ITU-T, “A method for subjective performance assessment of the
quality of speech voice output devices,” International Telecom-
munication Union (ITU-R), Tech. Rep. P.85, 1994.
2549
