warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Fairness in Dysarthric Speech Synthesis: Understanding Intrinsic Bias in
Dysarthric Speech Cloning using F5-TTS
Anuprabha M1, Krishna Gurugubelli2, Anil Kumar Vuppala1
1Speech Processing Lab, LTRC, International Institute of Information Technology-Hyderabad, India
2Samsung Research & Development Institute-Bengaluru, India
anuprabha.m@research.iiit.ac.in, krishna.g@samsung.com, anil.vuppala@iiit.ac.in
Abstract
Dysarthric speech poses significant challenges in developing as-
sistive technologies, primarily due to the limited availability of
data. Recent advances in neural speech synthesis, especially
zero-shot voice cloning, facilitate synthetic speech generation
for data augmentation; however, they may introduce biases to-
wards dysarthric speech. In this paper, we investigate the effec-
tiveness of state-of-the-art F5-TTS in cloning dysarthric speech
using TORGO dataset, focusing on intelligibility, speaker sim-
ilarity, and prosody preservation.
We also analyze potential
biases using fairness metrics like Disparate Impact and Parity
Difference to assess disparities across dysarthric severity lev-
els. Results show that F5-TTS exhibits a strong bias toward
speech intelligibility over speaker and prosody preservation in
dysarthric speech synthesis. Insights from this study can help
integrate fairness-aware dysarthric speech synthesis, fostering
the advancement of more inclusive speech technologies.
Index Terms: Dysarthria, F5-TTS, Fairness, Synthetic speech.
1. Introduction
Dysarthria, a motor speech disorder caused by neurological
conditions, results in a speech that is often slurred, slow, or dif-
ficult to understand, particularly in its more severe forms [1, 2].
Individuals with dysarthria often encounter communication
challenges, making speech-based assistive technologies such
as Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) and Text-to-Speech
(TTS) systems vital for facilitating their interaction with digital
devices. However, the development of robust dysarthric speech
technologies is often hindered by data scarcity, as dysarthric
speech varies widely in severity and speaker characteristics [3].
Data augmentation is widely explored in dysarthric speech ap-
plications to address this challenge of data scarcity [4].
Traditional approaches for data augmentation include
speed, temporal, or spectral modifications [4, 5, 6], GAN-based
adversarial augmentation [7, 8], and voice conversion [9, 10,
11]. Additionally, advancements in end-to-end TTS and voice
cloning systems have enabled the generation of high-quality
synthetic speech with human-like qualities, including diverse
speaker characteristics and styles. These advancements have
been studied by [12, 13, 14] to synthesize dysarthric speech.
By leveraging state-of-the-art voice cloning models, such as
F5-TTS [15], researchers can generate personalised dysarthric
speech at varying severity levels, which has the potential to en-
hance the training of ASR models and other assistive speech
technologies. Despite the utilization of neural speech synthesis
systems for augmenting dysarthric speech, several critical ques-
tions remain unanswered regarding the effectiveness and fair-
ness of dysarthric speech cloning, like: Can synthetic dysarthric
speech maintain intelligibility? How does it impact ASR perfor-
mance? How well the cloned speech retains speaker identity in
replicating different severity levels of dysarthria? Do speech
synthesis models exhibit bias across dysarthric severity levels
in ways that could be disadvantageous to certain user groups?
During dysarthric speech synthesis across severity levels,
challenges related to fairness can manifest in various ways, such
as intelligibility bias (comprehensibility of spoken content),
speaker identity (preservation of speaker characteristics), and
prosody inconsistencies (rhythmic and tonal aspects of speech).
Due to this, speech data augmentation becomes biased, lead-
ing to skewed performance in ASR and making speech recogni-
tion less effective, particularly for severely impaired dysarthric
speakers [16]. Moreover, assistive speech systems trained on
biased synthetic data could reinforce disparities, thus nega-
tively impacting accessibility and usability for individuals with
dysarthria. Hence, it is very important to understand the intrin-
sic biases in dysarthric speech syntheses to incorporate fairness-
aware augmentation strategies. Over the past decade, significant
work has been done in assessing biases by focusing on age, gen-
der, and geographic factors within ASR and spoken language
understanding (SLU) systems [17, 18, 19, 20]. To the best of
our knowledge, this is the first study to analyse biases in syn-
thetic dysarthric speech generated by a zero-shot voice cloning
system. The key contributions of this work are as follows:
• Assess the quality of synthesised dysarthric speech in terms
of intelligibility, speaker similarity, and prosody preserva-
tion, using objective metrics like Word Error Rate (WER),
Character Error Rate (CER), Speaker Similarity (SIM-o) and
Auto Prosodic Consistency Protocol (AutoPCP).
• Introduce a framework to quantify fairness in synthesising
dysarthric speech based on Parity Difference (PD) and Dis-
parate Impact (DI) metrics.
• An in-depth fairness analysis is conducted on dysarthric
speech generated by F5-TTS, examining variations across
different severity levels, gender, and individual speakers us-
ing the TORGO dataset [21].
• Impact of incorporating voice-cloned samples on down-
stream tasks, such as detection and speech recognition of
dysarthria.
• Provision of key insights into the need for fairness-aware
analysis in the generation of synthetic data to improve
dysarthric speech technologies, particularly ASR and assis-
tive communication systems.
2. Proposed Methodology
This section introduces the proposed framework for evaluat-
ing performance variations in preserving information related
to dysarthric severity during zero-shot synthetic speech genera-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2750
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1536

tion. As illustrated in Figure 1, the framework follows a system-
atic approach, beginning with the generation of synthetic speech
using F5-TTS, followed by an objective assessment, and con-
cluding with the measurement of bias across different severity
categories using two fairness metrics. Furthermore, this section
outlines the formulation and methodology employed to derive
the fairness metrics based on the objective assessment.
Figure 1:
Framework proposed for assessing fairness in
dysarthric speech generation using F5-TTS
2.1. Speech Cloning using F5-TTS
F5-TTS [15], a zero-shot, non-autoregressive TTS system,
is employed in this study to generate speech samples for
dysarthric speakers. The model synthesizes speech using a few
seconds of an audio prompt (reference speech sample), its cor-
respoding transcription, and a text prompt for synthetic speech
generation.
F5-TTS leverages flow matching and the Diffu-
sion Transformer (DiT), eliminating the need for components
such as a duration predictor, text encoder, context-aware codec
model, or phoneme alignment. Instead, it employs ConvNeXt
V2 to align the text input with the speech length by padding it
with filler tokens, followed by a de-noising process to generate
high-quality, natural-sounding speech. Trained on 100K hours
of publicly available multilingual data [22], F5-TTS exhibits
exceptional zero-shot performance, producing realistic speech
while preserving naturalness, intelligibility, and speaker simi-
larity. In this study, the F5-TTS base model 1 is used to generate
synthetic speech for speakers in the TORGO database.
2.2. Objective Assessment of Dysarthric Speech Cloning
To objectively assess how well the generated speech preserves
different levels of dysarthric severity in terms of intelligibility,
speaker, and prosodic similarity, we evaluate it using the fol-
lowing criteria:
• WER and CER: The intelligibility of the generated samples
is assessed using both WER and CER. The addition of CER
offers a detailed analysis by focusing on errors at the char-
acter level, which is particularly useful for capturing sub-
tle speech distortions such as mispronunciations or missing
characters often present in dysarthric speech [23]. Due to
this, the evaluation process gains a more comprehensive un-
derstanding of the TTS system’s ability to handle the intri-
cate nuances of dysarthric speech, ensuring a more accurate
1https://github.com/SWivid/F5-TTS
assessment of its overall performance on intelligibility. Addi-
tionally, to evaluate potential biases in the context of intelli-
gibility, it is essential to incorporate the differences (∆WER)
between WER of the audio prompt and the generated audio
as part of the objective assessment. ∆WER is obtained by:
∆WER = WERaudio prompt −WERgenerated audio
(1)
Similarly, ∆CER is calculated by,
∆CER = CERaudio prompt −CERgenerated audio
(2)
In this study, the Hubert-large2 ASR model [24] fine-tuned
on 960 hrs of Librispeech is used to measure WER and CER.
• SIM-o score: Assessing speaker similarity is essential to
ensure that the generated speech accurately reflects the in-
tended speaker’s characteristics despite potential distortions.
In this study, speaker similarity is evaluated using the SIM-o
score, which quantifies the preservation of speaker character-
istics. SIM-o is computed as the cosine similarity between
the speaker embeddings of the reference audio prompt and
the generated speech. To obtain SIM-o, we utilize a speaker
verification model3 based on WavLM-large [25].
• AutoPCP score [26]: For dysarthric speakers, maintaining
natural prosody is challenging due to motor impairments that
affect speech articulation, pitch, rhythm, and intonation, of-
ten resulting in irregular speech patterns. Evaluating prosody
similarity is crucial to ensure that the generated speech pre-
serves the prosody of the original audio prompt. This is cal-
culated by comparing the audio prompt with the generated
speech using AutoPCP multilingual v2 4 comparator model.
2.3. Fairness Metrics
• Parity Difference (PD): It refers to the extent of similarity
or differences in the objective measures between healthy and
various severity categories. PD value of 0 indicates that the
categories are treated similarly.
• Disparate Impact (DI): The Disparate Impact, or relative dis-
parity, is the ratio calculated for each of the objective mea-
sures pertaining to healthy and various severity categories.
DI value of 1 indicates no bias between the groups.
2.4. Formulation / Algorithm
Let s ∈{healthy, low, mid, high} denote a severity cate-
gory from the set of S severities listed in Table 1 and d ∈
{∆WER, ∆CER, SIMo, AutoPCP} denote an objective
measure from a set of D objective measures. md,s is the mean
of the objective measure d for s severity category. Based on the
information provided, the algorithm for measuring bias across
different categories using fairness metrics is proposed and out-
lined in Algorithm 1. While using ∆WER or ∆CER to measure
bias, higher word (or character) error rates may result in higher
severity categories, potentially skewing the results. To address
this, softmax normalization is applied to the mean of ∆WER
or ∆CER across the severity levels to effectively find a more
balanced DI. Softmax normalization for d is given by:
Softmax(md,s) =
emd,s
P
S emd,s
(3)
2https://github.com/facebookresearch/fairseq/
tree/main/examples/hubert
3https://github.com/microsoft/UniSpeech/tree/
main/downstreams/speaker_verification
4https://github.com/facebookresearch/stopes/
tree/main/stopes/eval/auto_pcp
2751

while d ∈D do
while s ∈S do
PDd,s = |md,s=healthy −md,s|;
end
if d is ∆WER or ∆CER then
md,s = Softmax(md,s) ;
while s ∈S do
DId,s =
1/md,s
1/md,s=healthy ;
end
else
while d ∈D do
DId,s =
md,s
md,s=healthy ;
end
end
end
Algorithm 1: Estimation of fairness metrics.
3. Experimental setup
This section provides an overview of the database and outlines
the evaluation setup for the study.
3.1. TORGO Dysarthric Database
The TORGO database [21] includes both acoustic and 3D artic-
ulatory measurements from speakers with Cerebral Palsy (CP)
or Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). It contains speech
samples from 8 dysarthric (3 females and 5 males) and 7 healthy
(3 females and 4 males) speakers. The utterances in the database
are categorized into: non-words, short words, restricted sen-
tences, and unrestricted sentences. Utterances from restricted
sentences are considered for this study. The dysarthric speak-
ers in the database were assessed using the Frenchay Dysarthria
Assessment (FDA), a 9-point scale that measures speech motor
function and severity. Table 1 presents the list of speakers with
varying severity levels included in this study.
Table 1: Speaker Severity Categories in the TORGO database.
All of these speakers are considered for generating synthetic
samples, and train-test split is followed in the downstream tasks.
Severity
Train
Test
healthy
FC03, MC03
MC04
low
F04, M03
F03
mid
M05
F01
high
M01, M04
M02
3.2. Downstream Tasks Training and Evaluation
To perform the fairness analysis, for each speaker listed in
Table 1, n reference audio prompts are considered, and 3n
synthetic samples are generated using F5-TTS for given text
prompts 5.
For fine-tuning on the ASR task, Wav2vec2.0-
Base [27] model 6 is employed without a language model (LM).
To perform dysarthria detection (healthy Vs. dysarthria), 39-
dimensional MFCC features are extracted from speech for ev-
ery 25 ms with a shift of 10 ms. A CNN architecture with 3
convolutional layers, flattening and fully connected layers was
utilized and each layer is provided with batch normalization, a
5https://github.com/microsoft/
e2tts-test-suite/blob/main/assets/e2tts_
librispeech_pc_test_clean.json
6https://github.com/facebookresearch/fairseq/
blob/main/examples/wav2vec/README.md
Relu activation function, and a dropout of 0.2, to prevent overfit-
ting. The downstream tasks were performed on data containing
(1) only audio samples from the database; (2) only on gener-
ated audio; and (3) combination of both (1) and (2). We used
two NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2080 Ti GPUs.
4. Results and Discussion
This section provides findings and insights into intrinsic biases
in dysarthric speech cloning using F5-TTS, highlighting their
impact on fairness in dysarthric speech synthesis.
4.1. Objective Assessment of Synthetic Dysarthric Speech
To assess how well the generated speech preserves dysarthric
severity, different objective measures (as discussed in Sec-
tion 2.2) are computed between the reference audios from
TORGO dataset and generated audios using F5-TTS, and the
results are presented in Figure 2. From Figure 2.a., it is ob-
served that the ∆WER and ∆CER are consistently higher in
mid and high severity categories compared to the healthy and
low severity category. The main reason for this bias might stem
from the limitations of the zero-shot voice-cloned sample in ac-
curately representing the speech intelligibility of mid and high
severity categories. This results in a lower WER or CER in the
generated audio compared to the reference.
In Figure 2(b), the SIM-o and autoPCP metrics assess
speaker similarity and prosody preservation. The SIM-o val-
ues remain relatively stable across different severity levels, in-
dicating that the synthesized speech maintains speaker identity.
However, the autoPCP scores show a decreasing trend for more
severe dysarthric speakers, implying that the prosody of syn-
thesized speech deviates from the original as dysarthric severity
increases. Overall, these results suggest that while the zero-
shot TTS system can reasonably maintain speaker characteris-
tics, it struggles to fully preserve the intelligibility and prosody
of more severe dysarthric speech.
(a)∆WER and ∆CER
(b) SIM-o and autoPCP
Figure 2: Objective assessment of zero-shot synthetic dysarthric
speech using F5-TTS.
2752

Table 2: Key insights and recommendations based on the fairness study. (Based on minimum DI score of each objective measure.)
Metric
Most Affected Severity DI Score Fairness Level
Key Insights
Recommended Action
∆WER
Mid and high severity
0.59
Poor
High disparity in speech
recognition for severe dysarthria.
Intelligibility-aware speech data
augmentation is needed.
∆CER
Mid and high severity
0.75
Poor
Character-level errors increase
notably for severe dysarthria.
Adapt ASR models to represent
severity for better generalisation.
SIM-o
No major impact
0.81
Good
Speaker identity is mostly
preserved across severity levels.
Minimal intervention is needed.
AutoPCP
No major impact
0.87
Good
Prosody preservation remain
stable across dysarthria levels.
Minimal intervention is needed.
4.2. Fairness Metrics-Based Analysis
In addition to our previous findings on the presence of biases
in cloned dysarthric speech, this study employs fairness metrics
to systematically analyze their impact across varying severity
levels and gender categories, and the results are reported in Ta-
ble 3. In general, speakers in the low severity category exhibit
relatively clear speech patterns with only slight articulation dif-
ficulties, making their speech closely resemble that of healthy
speakers. This is also reflected in the generated speech. As a
result, minimal to no bias is being observed in both PD and DI
across all objective measures.
Apart from this, minimal bias is also observed in both the
mid and high categories in retaining speaker and prosodic sim-
ilarity, with PD remains closer to 0, and DI stays closer to 1
in both SIM-o and autoPCP. Conversely, high disparities are
observed in ∆WER for both mid and high severity categories,
where DI is less than 0.66 and PD is greater than 0.41. In con-
trast, for high severtiy category, while using ∆CER, as it fo-
cuses on character-level articulation errors, a reduction of 27%
in DI and 85.71% in PD is observed compared to ∆WER. How-
ever, ∆CER still shows bias in the high severity category, with
a DI of 0.75. Further, the fairness analysis across gender re-
veals a notable disparity, with male speakers exhibiting higher
bias, particularly in intelligibility (∆WER) while female speak-
ers shows higher bias in prosody (PD=0.36).
Table 3: Fairness metrics based analysis for dysarthric severity
and gender categories. High bias is highlighted.
Fairness across severity levels
Severity
category
∆WER
∆CER
SIM-o
autoPCP
PD
DI
PD
DI
PD
DI
PD
DI
healthy
0.0
1.0
0.0
1.0
0.0
1.0
0.0
1.0
low
0.02 0.97 0.01 0.98 0.05 0.91
0.0
0.99
mid
0.41 0.66 0.22 0.80 0.11 0.81 0.09 0.87
high
0.52 0.59 0.28 0.75 0.09 0.85 0.08 0.90
Fairness across gender
Male
0.37 0.68 0.19 0.82 0.07 0.88 0.11 0.96
Female
0.21 0.81 0.12 0.88 0.09 0.84 0.36 0.88
4.3. Impact of Zero-Shot Voice-Cloning Based Augmenta-
tion on Downstream Tasks
To understand the impact of zero-shot TTS augmented data with
implicit biases, we have analysed its effect on the performance
of downstream tasks such as ASR and dysarthria detection, and
the results are presented in Table 4. Notably, model 3 shows
improvement, benefiting from the augmented data when trained
alongside the reference audio samples. This results in an 18%
improvement in overall detection accuracy and a 44.57% reduc-
tion in WER for the low severity category, compared to model 1
(model without augmentation). Conversely, due to the high bias
towards higher severities, the addition of synthetic samples does
not result in further improvement in the ASR task, instead lead-
ing to a reduction of 5.74% and 7.65% in WER for mid and high
severities, respectively. As for model 2 being trained solely on
synthetic data, it fails to generalise on the reference audio of
dysarthric speech [28], leading to a degradation in performance.
Overall, the addition of synthetic data benefits the dysarthria
detection task more than the ASR task. Further research is re-
quired to better understand the effects.
Table 4: Performance on downstream tasks. (model 1-trained
on reference audio from TORGO, model 2-trained on synthetic
audio, model 3-trained on both reference audio and synthetic
audio.) Improvement is highlighted.
Task1: ASR (WER in %)
Task2: Dysarthria
detection (Acc. in %)
Experiments
low
mid
high
model 1
53.00 89.07
87.53
62.50
model 2
76.69 94.11
96.62
48.75
model 3
36.66 94.19
94.23
73.75
4.4. Observations based on Fairness Study
Based on the fairness analysis and the observations from down-
stream tasks, the key insights are presented in Table 2. As dis-
cussed in the above sections, the results confirm that speech
intelligibility (in terms of WER and CER) is the most biased
aspect of dysarthric speech synthesis, particularly for severe
cases.
Unlike intelligibility, speaker and prosody similarity
remain relatively unbiased, with DI above 0.81. These find-
ings emphasize the need for fairness-aware data augmentation
when using zero-shot voice cloning systems to generate syn-
thetic speech for severe dysarthric speakers.
5. Conclusion
In this work, we presented a framework for evaluating biases in
synthetic speech generated by F5-TTS for dysarthric speakers.
Using fairness metrics, our analysis provides valuable insights
into how dysarthric severity affects the preservation of intel-
ligibility, speaker identity, and prosody in voice-cloned sam-
ples. While speaker similarity and prosodic information are re-
tained across all severity levels, intelligibility is compromised
in high severity cases with PD of 0.52 and DI of 0.59. This
in turn affects the representation of higher dysarthric severities
in data augmentation. Moreover, fine-tuning ASR models with
such augmented data leads to performance degradation, particu-
larly for individuals with more severe dysarthria. These findings
strongly suggest the critical need for fairness-aware approaches
in dysarthric speech augmentation. Future work will focus on
exploring such methodologies to enhance the effectiveness of
speech technologies for individuals with dysarthria.
2753

6. References
[1] R. Joseph, “Motor speech disorders e-book: Substrates, differen-
tial diagnosis, and management,” 2019.
[2] P. Enderby, “Disorders of communication: dysarthria,” Handbook
of clinical neurology, vol. 110, pp. 273–281, 2013.
[3] H. P. Rowe, S. E. Gutz, M. F. Maffei, K. Tomanek, and J. R.
Green, “Characterizing dysarthria diversity for automatic speech
recognition: A tutorial from the clinical perspective,” Frontiers in
computer science, vol. 4, p. 770210, 2022.
[4] M. Geng, X. Xie, S. Liu, J. Yu, S. Hu, X. Liu, and H. Meng, “In-
vestigation of data augmentation techniques for disordered speech
recognition,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2020, pp. 696–700.
[5] Z. Jin, X. Xie, T. Wang, M. Geng, J. Deng, G. Li, S. Hu, and
X. Liu, “Towards automatic data augmentation for disordered
speech recognition,” in Proc. ICASSP.
IEEE, 2024, pp. 10 626–
10 630.
[6] C. Bhat, A. Panda, and H. Strik, “Improved asr performance for
dysarthric speech using two-stage dataaugmentation,” in Proc. In-
terspeech, 2022, pp. 46–50.
[7] Z. Jin, M. Geng, J. Deng, T. Wang, S. Hu, G. Li, and X. Liu, “Per-
sonalized adversarial data augmentation for dysarthric and elderly
speech recognition,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech,
and Language Processing, 2023.
[8] H. Wang, Z. Jin, M. Geng, S. Hu, G. Li, T. Wang, H. Xu,
and X. Liu, “Enhancing pre-trained asr system fine-tuning for
dysarthric speech recognition using adversarial data augmenta-
tion,” in Proc. ICASSP.
IEEE, 2024, pp. 12 311–12 315.
[9] J. Harvill, D. Issa, M. Hasegawa-Johnson, and C. Yoo, “Synthesis
of new words for improved dysarthric speech recognition on an
expanded vocabulary,” in Proc. ICASSP.
IEEE, 2021, pp. 6428–
6432.
[10] W.-C. Huang, B. M. Halpern, L. P. Violeta, O. Scharenborg, and
T. Toda, “Towards identity preserving normal to dysarthric voice
conversion,” in Proc. ICASSP.
IEEE, 2022, pp. 6672–6676.
[11] B. M. Halpern, W.-C. Huang, L. P. Violeta, R. van Son,
and T. Toda, “Improving severity preservation of healthy-to-
pathological voice conversion with global style tokens,” in Proc.
ASRU.
IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–7.
[12] K. Azizah, “Zero-shot voice cloning text-to-speech for dysphonia
disorder speakers,” IEEE Access, 2024.
[13] E. Hermann and M. Magimai.-Doss, “Few-shot dysarthric speech
recognition with text-to-speech data augmentation,” in Proc. In-
terspeech, 2023, pp. 156–160.
[14] A. Hu, D. Phadnis, and S. R. Shahamiri, “Generating syn-
thetic dysarthric speech to overcome dysarthria acoustic data
scarcity,” Journal of Ambient Intelligence and Humanized Com-
puting, vol. 14, pp. 6751–6768, 2023.
[15] Y. Chen, Z. Niu, Z. Ma, K. Deng, C. Wang, J. Zhao, K. Yu, and
X. Chen, “F5-tts: A fairytaler that fakes fluent and faithful speech
with flow matching,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.06885, 2024.
[16] Y. Zhang, A. Herygers, T. Patel, Z. Yue, and O. Scharenborg, “Ex-
ploring data augmentation in bias mitigation against non-native-
accented speech,” in Proc. ASRU.
IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–8.
[17] P. DHERAM, M. Ramakrishnan, A. Raju, I.-F. Chen, B. King,
K. Powell, M. Saboowala, K. Shetty, and A. Stolcke, “Toward
fairness in speech recognition: Discovery and mitigation of per-
formance disparities,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2022, pp. 1268–1272.
[18] L.-F. Lai and N. Holliday, “Exploring sources of racial bias in
automatic speech recognition through the lens of rhythmic varia-
tion,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2023, pp. 1284–1288.
[19] I.-E. Veliche, Z. Huang, V. Ayyat Kochaniyan, F. Peng, O. Kalinli,
and M. L. Seltzer, “Towards measuring fairness in speech recogni-
tion: Fair-speech dataset,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2024, pp. 1385–
1389.
[20] A. Koudounas, E. Pastor, G. Attanasio, V. Mazzia, M. Giollo,
T. Gueudre, E. Reale, L. Cagliero, S. Cumani, L. de Alfaro
et al., “Towards comprehensive subgroup performance analysis in
speech models,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and
Language Processing, 2024.
[21] F. Rudzicz, A. K. Namasivayam, and T. Wolff, “The torgo
database of acoustic and articulatory speech from speakers with
dysarthria,” Lang Resources Evaluation, p. 523–541, 2012.
[22] H. He, Z. Shang, C. Wang, X. Li, Y. Gu, H. Hua, L. Liu, C. Yang,
J. Li, P. Shi et al., “Emilia: An extensive, multilingual, and diverse
speech dataset for large-scale speech generation,” in Proc. SLT.
IEEE, 2024, pp. 885–890.
[23] Y. Choi, J. Lee, and M.-W. Koo, “Speech recognition-based fea-
ture extraction for enhanced automatic severity classification in
dysarthric speech,” in Proc. SLT.
IEEE, 2024, pp. 953–960.
[24] W.-N. Hsu, B. Bolte, Y.-H. H. Tsai, K. Lakhotia, R. Salakhutdi-
nov, and A. Mohamed, “Hubert: Self-supervised speech represen-
tation learning by masked prediction of hidden units,” IEEE/ACM
transactions on audio, speech, and language processing, vol. 29,
pp. 3451–3460, 2021.
[25] S. Chen, C. Wang, Z. Chen, Y. Wu, S. Liu, Z. Chen, J. Li,
N. Kanda, T. Yoshioka, X. Xiao et al., “Wavlm: Large-scale self-
supervised pre-training for full stack speech processing,” IEEE
Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing, vol. 16, pp.
1505–1518, 2022.
[26] L. Barrault, Y.-A. Chung, M. C. Meglioli, D. Dale, N. Dong,
M. Duppenthaler, P.-A. Duquenne, B. Ellis, H. Elsahar, J. Haa-
heim et al., “Seamless: Multilingual expressive and streaming
speech translation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.05187, 2023.
[27] A. Baevski, Y. Zhou, A. Mohamed, and M. Auli, “wav2vec
2.0: A framework for self-supervised learning of speech repre-
sentations,” Advances in neural information processing systems,
vol. 33, pp. 12 449–12 460, 2020.
[28] B. Hilmes, N. Rossenbach, and R. Schl¨uter, “On the effect
of purely synthetic training data for different automatic speech
recognition architectures,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2024, pp. 46–50.
2754

