warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Investigating Stochastic Methods for Prosody Modeling in Speech Synthesis
Paul Mayer1,∗, Florian Lux2,∗, Alejandro P´erez-Gonz´alez-de-Martos2, Angelina Elizarova2,
Lindsey Vanderlyn1, Dirk V¨ath1, Ngoc Thang Vu1
1University of Stuttgart, Germany
2AppTek GmbH, Germany
flux@apptek.com
Abstract
While generative methods have progressed rapidly in recent
years, generating expressive prosody for an utterance remains a
challenging task in text-to-speech synthesis. This is particularly
true for systems that model prosody explicitly through param-
eters such as pitch, energy, and duration, which is commonly
done for the sake of interpretability and controllability. In this
work, we investigate the effectiveness of stochastic methods
for this task, including Normalizing Flows, Conditional Flow
Matching, and Rectified Flows. We compare these methods to
a traditional deterministic baseline, as well as to real human
realizations. Our extensive subjective and objective evaluations
demonstrate that stochastic methods produce natural prosody on
par with human speakers by capturing the variability inherent in
human speech. Further, they open up additional controllability
options by allowing the sampling temperature to be tuned.
Index Terms: prosody modeling, speech synthesis, stochastic
methods
1. Introduction
In recent years, text-to-speech (TTS) systems have made sig-
nificant advancements in expressivity and naturalness, closing
the gap to human speech in multiple instances [1–4]. How-
ever, there remains an inherent trade-off between controllability
and expressivity. While modern language modeling approaches
to TTS have demonstrated impressive performance in generat-
ing human-like speech [5–7], they operate as a black box with-
out providing mechanisms to influence the prosody of an utter-
ance on a fine-grained level. This constraint poses challenges
in applications that require precise control over the generated
speech, such as speaker anonymization and voice privacy [8],
literary studies and digital humanities [9], adversarial defense
against deepfakes [10], or content generation and high-quality
dubbing [11].
Explicit modeling of phoneme durations, as well as pitch
and energy contours [12–14], allows for human intervention in
the generation pipeline to refine the speech output. However,
these systems often lack expressivity, as their prosody predic-
tion mechanisms struggle to capture the variability present in
natural speech. This limitation results in synthesized speech
that, while controllable, may sound less dynamic and varied
compared to approaches that model prosodic parameters like
duration implicitly, for example through autoregression.
As mentioned previously, however, systems that utilize ex-
plicit prosody prediction are still a necessity for many important
applications. Hence, we address this bottleneck in this work
by investigating the use of state-of-the-art generative methods,
*These authors contributed equally.
 
sampling temperature?
?
Encoder
Decoder
Prosody 
Predictor
CFM
ReFlow
Deterministic
Normalizing 
Flow
Figure 1: An overview of the questions we want to answer:
Which method is most suitable to model prosody in speech syn-
thesis and which sampling temperature works best?
such as Normalizing Flows (NF) [15], Conditional Flow Match-
ing (CFM) [16], and Rectified Flows (RF) [17, 18] for explicit
prosody prediction.
One of the earliest works introducing advances towards this
goal is the VITS architecture [19], which explores the idea of
using an NF module to predict durations in a stochastic fash-
ion. In their evaluation, they confirm the improved ability of
their stochastic duration predictor to adapt to various speaking
rhythms. VarianceFlow [20] takes this NF module and extends
its application to pitch and energy prediction. Finally, and most
recently, [21] confirm the benefits of stochastic methods for du-
ration modeling using a CFM module. They show in their eval-
uation that especially for conversational scenarios, speech pro-
duced from a system with stochastic duration prediction out-
performs deterministic systems by a significant margin. They
do, however, find no benefit in using the CFM module over a
deterministic module for pitch prediction.
Extending this relatively underexplored line of research, we
conduct a thorough investigation of modeling pitch, energy, and
durations using NF, CFM, RF, and a deterministic baseline, as
visualized in Figure 1. We also include human samples as an
upper bound in the comparisons. We perform objective evalu-
ations to explore whether prosodic parameters should be mod-
eled jointly or separately, the impact of their order, as well as the
effects of the sampling temperature and the generative method
used. Furthermore, we conduct a study with human raters to
compare systems and temperatures in terms of prosodic natu-
ralness and prosodic diversity.
We find that 1) duration prediction benefits from modeling
prosodic parameters as cascade instead of jointly, 2) the impact
of the order of pitch and energy prediction is negligible, and 3)
the variance in generated speech can be controlled effectively
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
439
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1940

using the sampling temperature. Human judgment further re-
veals that 4) naturalness and diversity have an inverse relation-
ship, even for human recordings, and 5) the RF based model of-
fers the most favorable trade-off between the two desired prop-
erties. Additionally, we provide open-source code1 to support
reproducibility and foster the adoption of these techniques.
2. Methods
2.1. Overall Pipeline
The pipeline follows the architecture of ToucanTTS [22,23] due
to its modularity and open-source implementation. It builds on
FastSpeech 2 [12, 13] and incorporates several key improve-
ments, such as the use of articulatory features as the input
representation [24] and a Conformer-based encoder and de-
coder [25]. Similar to FastPitch [14], pitch and energy val-
ues are averaged over the duration of each phoneme and nor-
malized on an utterance level to make the contours speaker-
independent [26]. Speaker characteristics are conditioned on a
pre-trained ECAPA-TDNN [27] speaker embedding model pro-
vided by Speechbrain [28]. Additionally, the CFM PostNet,
adapted from MatchaTTS [29], refines the generated spectro-
gram. While the training of this CFM module follows a stochas-
tic process, the sampling temperature is set to 0.0 during in-
ference, to ensure that the only variance in the speech signal
stems from the variance predictors which are conditioned on
the speaker and the encoder output. The predictors estimate
pitch, energy, and duration for each phoneme. During train-
ing, ground-truth values are available and teacher forcing is em-
ployed to prevent cascading errors. The following sections take
a closer look at the structure and functionality of the different
variance predictors that this work focuses on.
2.2. Order of Predictors
The first setup we consider uses the predictors sequentially with
residual connections. This cascading approach allows each pre-
dictor to be conditioned on previously estimated prosodic fea-
tures, potentially capturing hierarchical dependencies between
them. This also raises the question of which order these should
be predicted in. Since both the pitch contour and the energy
contour add information to the latent space, their order could
have an impact. This is not the case for the duration predictor,
as it does not modify the latent space since it is purely used for
upsampling. Hence, we always predict duration last and only
explore the order of the pitch and energy predictors in the cas-
cade. An entirely different approach is to use a single predictor
with a three-dimensional output, where pitch, energy, and dura-
tion are predicted simultaneously from the same module.
2.3. Deterministic Baseline
The baseline system adopts a deterministic approach inspired
by the convolutional variance predictors in FastSpeech 2 [13].
The encoder output is transformed into a one-dimensional se-
quence in a purely deterministic way, which collapses all valid
prosodic realizations of an utterance into a single averaged
most-likely realization. During inference, the same sentence
will always be produced in exactly the same way. While this
approach leads to very robust and consistent realizations, it may
not be suitable for all use-cases, since the most-likely realiza-
tion is not always the desired one.
1https://github.com/DigitalPhonetics/
IMS-Toucan/tree/StochasticProsodyModeling
2.4. Probabilistic Predictors
While the deterministic model faces the inherent one-to-many
problem of TTS, where an individual point in the input can be
mapped to multiple valid targets, the stochastic models solve
this elegantly by treating this task as a transport problem be-
tween distributions. The input distribution is a simple Gaussian
for all our models, which they transform into the distribution
of valid prosodic realizations given the encoded phoneme se-
quence as condition using different techniques.
Normalizing Flow [15] The first of these techniques models the
flow from the data distribution to the noise distribution using a
series of invertible transformations. During inference, we use
the inverse transformation to map the noise to the data. Since it
is comparably easy to learn to predict noise from data, yet the
inverse is mathematically tractable, we can learn a flow between
the two distributions in a fast and stable way. This approach
works in a non-autoregressive fashion and requires only a single
step. However, the transformation is still gradual through the
use of many blocks of these invertible transformations. A major
issue with this approach, however, is that the couplings between
noise and data are arbitrary, which causes NFs to be unable to
fully capture complex distributions.
Conditional Flow Matching [16] The next technique is also a
type of flow that is defined as a transport function between arbi-
trary couplings of noise and data. However, this transport func-
tion is not realized as an invertible bijective mapping. Instead,
it represents a time-dependent vector field ut, which is trained
to approximate an existing mathematically tractable transport
function. It is used to generate a probability path pt from p0
to p1 ≈q, where q is the target distribution. While the CFM
approach is very general, and can theoretically approximate any
transport function between any distributions, it makes sense to
use optimal transport as the function to be approximated, since
this makes the flow move data points along the shortest pos-
sible path. During inference, we apply time-discretization to
move the points along pt using an ordinary differential equa-
tion (ODE) solver in multiple steps to reduce the deviation that
comes with the use of an imperfect ODE solver, such as the
Euler solver. The objective function of the CFM model is then
LCF M(θ) = Et,q(x1),pt(x|x1)∥ut(x|x1) −vt(x; θ)∥2
(1)
where vt(x, θ) is our neural network with parameters θ and
x representing an observation in the data space q. x1 is a condi-
tion that is sampled from the noise distribution in the first time
step. The flow matching procedure needs to be conditional to
make the problem tractable, but it again raises the issue of us-
ing an arbitrary coupling, causing crossing paths pt which pre-
vent the model from learning perfectly straight optimal trans-
port paths.
Rectified Flow [17] The final technique we consider is the same
as the previous CFM model, however, it turns the arbitrary cou-
pling into a deterministic coupling using a post-training proce-
dure called ReFlow. After the CFM has finished training, we
sample x1 from a Gaussian and then use a frozen copy of pt
to solve for xdet, using many ODE steps t to approximate an
exact solution. We then continue training the CFM model on
the deterministic coupling of (x1, xdet), which straightens pt,
aligning it more closely with optimal transport.
440

Table 1: JS divergence (↓) between human and synthetic distri-
butions for various configurations and prosodic variables.
Model
Pitch JS
Energy JS
Duration JS
Pitch First
0.7019
0.6887
0.4808
Energy First
0.7050
0.6894
0.4867
Joint Prediction
0.7070
0.6855
0.5621
3. Experiments
3.1. Datasets
Training Data: For this work, we constrain ourselves to read
speech, leaving experiments on conversational speech and other
more challenging scenarios for future work. We use LibriTTS
[30] for its clean and consistent data.
This dataset is com-
prised exclusively of read speech in English and features 2,456
speakers. Since the original purpose of the recordings was au-
diobooks, the utterances contain more prosodic variation than
other types of read speech, facilitating the learning of expres-
sive prosody by our variance predictors.
Evaluation Data:
For objective evaluation, we use the
RAVDESS dataset [31]. It consists of recordings from 24 pro-
fessional actors vocalizing two sentences with multiple emo-
tions and intensities. This diversity in expressions for the same
sentence allows us to estimate a distribution of human realiza-
tions for each sentence. For subjective evaluation, we utilize the
topical emphasis portion of the ADEPT dataset [32], which pro-
vides three samples per speaker with varying emphasis place-
ment. This choice is motivated by the fact that the realizations
of topical emphasis are similarly diverse to the emotional re-
alizations from RAVDESS in terms of prosody, however, they
are less salient than the emotions, which facilitates the unbiased
diversity estimation by human raters.
3.2. Setup
To ensure comparability between the generative methods, all
stochastic models use the same hyperparameters.
Since we
only need to model a one-dimensional sequence in the cascad-
ing case, we keep the parameter count very low and in line
with the parameter count of the deterministic model. The noise
vector has a dimensionality of 8, and we use 6 diffusion trans-
former layers [33], with a kernel size of 5 and a hidden size of
8. For the combined approach, the hyperparameters are scaled
up such that the amount of parameters in the model stays con-
stant. The models were trained for 100k steps with a batch size
of 32, which allowed all models to converge. The RF model
was trained for an additional 10k steps with the ReFlow stage.
This does not require training data, so all models saw the same
amount of data. During inference, we use the Euler solver for
both ODE based methods with 12 timesteps.
3.3. Objective Evaluation
First, we want to explore the impact of order on the performance
of the variance predictors. To objectively measure this, we cal-
culate a distributional distance measure between generated sam-
ples and human speech. For this, we first estimate the proba-
bility density functions (PDFs) using Gaussian kernel density
estimation (KDE). We then calculate the Jensen–Shannon (JS)
divergence [34, 35] between the estimated PDFs of the human
samples and the synthetic samples. Human references are taken
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 0.1 0.3 0.5 0.7 0.9 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Temperature
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Variance of Mean
NF
CFM
RF
Figure 2: Overview of how the sampling temperature affects the
average variance within the pitch contour of an utterance for
each system on average.
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 0.1 0.3 0.5 0.7 0.9 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Temperature
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Variance of Mean
NF
CFM
RF
Figure 3: Overview of how the sampling temperature affects the
average variance within the durations of an utterance for each
system on average.
from the RAVDESS dataset and compared to synthetic samples
generated using a CFM based predictor following [21] with the
same sentences and speakers. We see from the results in Table
1 that the cascading approaches outperform the joint modeling
approach by a large margin for duration prediction. For pitch
and energy prediction, the difference is not significant.
For
the order of the predictors within the cascade, the difference
is never significant. We can hence conclude that only duration
prediction requires prior knowledge of other prosodic variables.
We verified these results in informal listening tests and use a
cascade of energy→pitch→duration for all following experi-
ments.
To explore whether the sampling temperature can effec-
tively steer the diversity of the predicted prosody, we measure
the variance of the prosodic variables over an utterance.
In
Figure 2 and Figure 3, we visualize the variance of the aver-
age pitch and the variance of the average duration, respectively,
across 200 utterances for different temperatures. We can see
that the sampling temperature can effectively control the vari-
ance for all stochastic methods. The trend, however, does not
follow a strictly linear correlation, as the differences become
larger for temperatures close to 1.0. Values above 1.0 follow
the same trend, however, to such an extreme that we found this
not to be a reasonable choice through informal listening tests
and hence excluded these higher temperatures from all experi-
ments. An interesting finding of this experiment is that, due to
the nearly exponential relation between variance and tempera-
ture, a logarithmic transformation on the temperature axis can
turn the increase in variance into a linear relation, which may
be more intuitive for users of a system that exposes this control
mechanism.
We also perform qualitative analysis on individual sen-
tences by visualizing the distributions of means and variances of
values across multiple realizations of that sentence. An exam-
ple of this is shown in Figure 4, where the synthetic distribution
441

Pitch Mean 
Pitch Variance
Duration Mean Duration Variance
Sentence 1
Sentence 2
Figure 4: Blue is the human, orange is the CFM system. The
distributions are the KDE results of the mean values and the
variance values for pitch and duration across different realiza-
tions of the same sentence. Each row is based on one sentence.
DET
RF 0.4
CFM 0.4
CFM 0.8
RF 0.8
NF 0.4
HUMAN
NF 0.8
1
2
3
4
5
Naturalness
Figure 5: Ratings for the question: Given three samples, how
natural does the intonation sound overall?
is generated with the RF based model using a temperature of
0.8. We see that the distribution derived from the human sam-
ples (blue, left) is usually very wide and sometimes even has
two modes. For the synthetic samples (orange, right), we see
that most are unimodal, where the mode generally aligns with
the main mode of the human distribution, but is more narrow.
This indicates that the full diversity of the human speech is not
yet covered by this model, despite trends towards this being vis-
ible. We hypothesize that increasing the number of parameters
in the prosody prediction modules could lead to larger prosodic
diversity, which remains to be explored in future work.
3.4. Subjective Evaluation
Since both the naturalness of prosody, as well as the perceived
diversity across multiple takes of the same sentence by a speaker
are difficult to quantify objectively, we additionally conduct a
subjective evaluation with human evaluators. The participants
of this study were recruited from the crowd-sourcing platform
Prolific.
They self-identified as English native speakers and
were compensated fairly according to high ethical standards.
In this study, we asked 40 participants to listen to sets of three
audios generated by the same system. Then, we asked them
to rate how natural the prosody of the utterances sounded and
how distinctive they perceived the three takes to be, using a 5-
point Likert scale. This setup of three audios and two questions
was repeated across eight different conditions (Human, Deter-
ministic, NF low/high temperature, CFM low/high temperature,
HUMAN
RF 0.8
CFM 0.8
NF 0.4
NF 0.8
RF 0.4
CFM 0.4
DET
1
2
3
4
5
Diversity
Figure 6: Ratings for the question: Across three samples, how
distinct do the intonations sound?
RF low/high temperature), with two speakers per system (one
male, one female, randomly chosen from LibriTTS) and two
sentences per speaker. We thus collected a total of 7680 ratings
from the 40 raters, which is a total of 960 ratings per condi-
tion split over two questions. In order to isolate differences in
prosody as the only variable we adapt, we followed the prosody
cloning procedure outlined in [26] to convert the human sam-
ples to synthetic samples. These maintain the exact prosody of
the human samples, but do not differ in voice or audio quality.
The results of the naturalness evaluation are shown in Figure
5 and the results for the perceived diversity in Figure 6. Each
box is based on 480 ratings. The suffixes of the systems refer to
the sampling temperature used where applicable. The mean is
indicated by the solid line, the median by the dotted line.
From this experiment, we see that there is a trade-off be-
tween how natural users perceived the prosody of the three au-
dios to be, and how diverse. Even the human samples could not
reach maximal diversity and naturalness at the same time. The
deterministic system was perceived as most natural but least di-
verse, while the human baseline was considered most diverse
but, interestingly, not the most natural. In cases where only nat-
uralness should be the focus, we find that RF at 0.4, CFM at 0.4,
and the deterministic baseline tie for best performance (no sig-
nificant difference found via Kruskall-Wallis test [36] and Dunn
posthoc test [37]). However, in cases where diversity is also im-
portant, the RF model at 0.8 provides the best trade-off between
naturalness and diversity, since it produces the highest diversity
after the human baseline, while also maintaining a naturalness
score on par with the human baseline (no significant difference
found via Kruskall-Wallis test and Dunn posthoc test).
4. Conclusion
This paper presents a thorough comparison between different
stochastic methods for pitch, energy, and duration modeling
against a deterministic and a human baseline. Experimental re-
sults show that modeling prosodic parameters in a cascading
manner yields better performance than modeling them jointly,
but different ordering has no significant impact.
Subjective
evaluations reveal how prosodic diversity across takes and the
prosodic naturalness are inversely correlated. We demonstrate
how the sampling temperature allows for effective control over
the trade-off between these two aspects at inference time. Fi-
nally, we conclude that Rectified Flows offer the best over-
all performance for prosodic modeling compared to alternative
state-of-the-art generative approaches.
442

5. References
[1] X. Tan, J. Chen, H. Liu, J. Cong, C. Zhang, Y. Liu, X. Wang,
Y. Leng, Y. Yi, L. He et al., “Naturalspeech: End-to-end text-to-
speech synthesis with human-level quality,” IEEE Transactions
on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 2024.
[2] Y. Liu, R. Xue, L. He, X. Tan, and S. Zhao, “DelightfulTTS
2: End-to-end speech synthesis with adversarial vector-quantized
auto-encoders,” arXiv:2207.04646, 2022.
[3] K. Shen, Z. Ju, X. Tan, Y. Liu, Y. Leng, L. He, T. Qin, S. Zhao, and
J. Bian, “NaturalSpeech 2: Latent Diffusion Models are Natural
and Zero-Shot Speech and Singing Synthesizers,” in The Twelfth
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2023.
[4] Y. Liu, Z. Xu, G. Wang, K. Chen, B. Li et al., “DelightfulTTS:
The Microsoft Speech Synthesis System for Blizzard Challenge
2021,” Blizzard Challenge Workshop, vol. 2021, 2021.
[5] J.
Betker,
“Better
speech
synthesis
through
scaling,”
arXiv:2305.07243, 2023.
[6] C. Wang, S. Chen, Y. Wu, Z. Zhang, L. Zhou, S. Liu, Z. Chen,
Y. Liu, H. Wang, J. Li, L. He, S. Zhao, and F. Wei, “Neural Codec
Language Models are Zero-Shot Text to Speech Synthesizers,”
arXiv:2301.02111, 2023.
[7] L.-W. Chen, S. Watanabe, and A. Rudnicky, “A vector quantized
approach for text to speech synthesis on real-world spontaneous
speech,” in AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, vol. 37,
2023, pp. 12 644–12 652.
[8] S. Meyer, F. Lux, J. Koch, P. Denisov, P. Tilli, and N. T. Vu,
“Prosody Is Not Identity: A Speaker Anonymization Approach
Using Prosody Cloning,” in International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing.
IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–5.
[9] J. Koch, F. Lux, N. Schauffler, T. Bernhart, F. Dieterle, J. Kuhn,
S. Richter, G. Viehhauser, and N. T. Vu, “PoeticTTS - Control-
lable Poetry Reading for Literary Studies,” in Interspeech, 2022.
[10] X. Wang, H. Delgado, H. Tak, J.-w. Jung, H.-j. Shim, M. Todisco,
I. Kukanov, X. Liu, M. Sahidullah, T. Kinnunen et al., “Asvspoof
5: Design, collection and validation of resources for spoofing,
deepfake, and adversarial attack detection using crowdsourced
speech,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.08857, 2025.
[11] T. Xie, Y. Rong, P. Zhang, and L. Liu, “Towards controllable
speech synthesis in the era of large language models: A survey,”
arXiv:2412.06602, 2024.
[12] Y. Ren, Y. Ruan, X. Tan, T. Qin, S. Zhao, Z. Zhao, and T.-Y.
Liu, “FastSpeech: fast, robust and controllable text to speech,”
in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 32,
2019, pp. 3171–3180.
[13] Y. Ren, C. Hu, X. Tan, T. Qin, S. Zhao et al., “FastSpeech 2: Fast
and High-Quality End-to-End Text to Speech,” in International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2020.
[14] A. Ła´ncucki, “FastPitch: Parallel text-to-speech with pitch pre-
diction,” in International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
Signal Processing.
IEEE, 2021, pp. 6588–6592.
[15] D. Rezende and S. Mohamed, “Variational inference with normal-
izing flows,” in International Conference on Machine Learning.
PMLR, 2015, pp. 1530–1538.
[16] Y. Lipman, R. T. Chen, H. Ben-Hamu, M. Nickel, and M. Le,
“Flow Matching for Generative Modeling,” in The Eleventh Inter-
national Conference on Learning Representations, 2023.
[17] X. Liu, C. Gong, and Q. Liu, “Flow Straight and Fast: Learning to
Generate and Transfer Data with Rectified Flow,” in The Eleventh
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2022.
[18] Q. Liu, “Rectified flow: A marginal preserving approach to opti-
mal transport,” 2022.
[19] J. Kim, J. Kong, and J. Son, “Conditional variational autoencoder
with adversarial learning for end-to-end text-to-speech,” in Inter-
national Conference on Machine Learning.
PMLR, 2021, pp.
5530–5540.
[20] Y. Lee, J. Yang, and K. Jung, “Varianceflow: High-quality and
controllable text-to-speech using variance information via nor-
malizing flow,” in International Conference on Acoustics, Speech
and Signal Processing .
IEEE, 2022, pp. 7477–7481.
[21] S. Mehta, H. Lameris, R. Punmiya, J. Beskow, ´E. Sz´ekely, and
G. E. Henter, “Should you use a probabilistic duration model in
tts? probably! especially for spontaneous speech,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.05401, 2024.
[22] F. Lux, J. Koch, S. Meyer, T. Bott, N. Schauffler, P. Denisov,
A. Schweitzer, and N. T. Vu, “The IMS Toucan system for the
Blizzard Challenge 2023,” in Blizzard Challenge Workshop, 2023.
[23] F. Lux, S. Meyer, L. Behringer, F. Zalkow, P. Do, M. Coler,
E. A. P. Habets, and N. T. Vu, “Meta Learning Text-to-Speech
Synthesis in over 7000 Languages,” in Interspeech, 2024.
[24] F. Lux and N. T. Vu, “Language-Agnostic Meta-Learning for
Low-Resource Text-to-Speech with Articulatory Features,” in An-
nual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics,
2022, pp. 6858–6868.
[25] A. Gulati, J. Qin, C.-C. Chiu, N. Parmar, Y. Zhang et al., “Con-
former: Convolution-augmented Transformer for Speech Recog-
nition,” Interspeech, pp. 5036–5040, 2020.
[26] F. Lux, J. Koch, and N. T. Vu, “Exact Prosody Cloning in Zero-
Shot Multispeaker Text-to-Speech,” in IEEE Spoken Language
Technology Workshop, 2023, pp. 962–969.
[27] B. Desplanques, J. Thienpondt, and K. Demuynck, “ECAPA-
TDNN: Emphasized Channel Attention, Propagation and Ag-
gregation in TDNN Based Speaker Verification,” in Interspeech.
ISCA, 2020, pp. 3830–3834.
[28] M. Ravanelli, T. Parcollet, P. Plantinga, A. Rouhe, S. Cor-
nell et al., “SpeechBrain: A General-Purpose Speech Toolkit,”
arXiv:2106.04624, 2021.
[29] S. Mehta, R. Tu, J. Beskow, ´E. Sz´ekely, and G. E. Henter,
“Matcha-TTS: A fast TTS architecture with conditional flow
matching,” in International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
Signal Processing.
IEEE, 2024, pp. 11 341–11 345.
[30] H. Zen, V. Dang, R. Clark, Y. Zhang, R. J. Weiss et al., “Lib-
riTTS: A Corpus Derived from LibriSpeech for Text-to-Speech,”
in Interspeech.
ISCA, 2019, pp. 1526–1530.
[31] S. R. Livingstone and F. A. Russo, “The Ryerson Audio-Visual
Database of Emotional Speech and Song (RAVDESS): A dy-
namic, multimodal set of facial and vocal expressions in North
American English,” PloS one, vol. 13, no. 5, 2018.
[32] A. Torresquintero, T. H. Teh, C. G. Wallis, M. Staib, D. S. R. Mo-
han et al., “ADEPT: A Dataset for Evaluating Prosody Transfer,”
in Interspeech.
ISCA, 2021, pp. 3880–3884.
[33] W. Peebles and S. Xie, “Scalable diffusion models with transform-
ers,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference
on Computer Vision, 2023, pp. 4195–4205.
[34] J. Lin, “Divergence measures based on the shannon entropy,”
IEEE Transactions on Information theory, vol. 37, no. 1, pp. 145–
151, 1991.
[35] S. Kullback and R. A. Leibler, “On information and sufficiency,”
The Annals of Mathematical Statistics, vol. 22, no. 1, pp. 79–86,
1951.
[36] W. H. Kruskal and W. A. Wallis, “Use of ranks in one-criterion
variance analysis,” Journal of the American statistical Associa-
tion, vol. 47, no. 260, pp. 583–621, 1952.
[37] O. J. Dunn, “Multiple comparisons using rank sums,” Technomet-
rics, vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 241–252, 1964.
443

