warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Accessible Delivery of Visual-Acoustic Biofeedback for Speech Sound Disorder
Tara McAllister1, Peter Traver2, Amanda Eads1, William Haack1, Helen Carey1, Yi Shan2, Wendy
Liang1, Tae Hong Park3
1Communicative Sciences and Disorders, New York University, USA
2Music and Performing Arts Professions, New York University, USA
3Department of Music, Purdue University, USA
tkm214@nyu.edu, pdt9929@nyu.edu, are326@nyu.edu, willhaacktutoring@gmail.com,
helencarey@nyu.edu, ys4945@nyu.edu, wl1163@nyu.edu, thp@purdue.edu
Abstract
This paper presents staRt, an iOS and web application for
visual-acoustic biofeedback aiming to facilitate widespread up-
take of technology-enhanced speech training. staRt provides
a real-time linear predictive coding (LPC) spectrum that can be
compared to an adjustable slider representing a target frequency
for vocal tract resonance. The software currently presents exer-
cises for children with speech sound disorder who have diffi-
culty pronouncing “r” sounds in English, but it shows promise
for adaptation to a number of other contexts.
Index Terms:
biofeedback,
human-computer interaction,
speech sound disorder
1. Introduction
New technologies have the potential to revolutionize the clini-
cal management of childhood speech sound disorder (SSD), but
uptake of new evidence-based practices has historically been
limited by barriers of cost and the need for specialized train-
ing. This paper provides a technical description of staRt, an
iOS and web application that aims to increase the accessibility
and inclusivity of speech training incorporating visual-acoustic
biofeedback. The software has been downloaded nearly 20,000
times by speech-language pathologists (SLPs) and families of
children with SSD worldwide. We want to share the project
with the Interspeech community at this time because we are re-
envisioning the acoustic processing at the core of our tool and
welcome feedback to guide our next steps.
2. Theoretical Background
2.1. Biofeedback for Speech Sound Disorder
In SSD, deficits in spoken communication negatively impact in-
telligibility and pose a barrier to participation across academic
and social domains, with negative ramifications for educational
and occupational outcomes [1]. Most children with SSD go on
to develop typical speech by 8-9 years of age, but up to 5% of
older children and adolescents continue to struggle with chal-
lenging sounds such as the American English “r” sound, /ô/ [2].
Our team’s laboratory research has shown that children who
have not responded to conventional speech therapy can benefit
from treatment incorporating visual biofeedback [3]. We define
biofeedback as the use of instrumentation to create a real-time
display of speech that can be compared with a visual target rep-
resenting the desired pronunciation. The visual display offers a
new window of insight into a largely subconscious process and
can also support learners who have difficulty hearing the differ-
ence between the target sound and their current production. De-
spite positive research findings, clinical uptake of biofeedback
was limited for many years by the high cost of the technology
used in laboratory research. The staRt project was launched
with the goal of expanding access to an evidence-based treat-
ment method for children with speech difficulties. Originally
developed for iOS, staRt is now accessible as a web applica-
tion. Here, we focus on the web version that runs on standard
web browsers, making the software device-agnostic and there-
fore accessible to a wider range of users. staRt requires no
equipment besides a microphone and a device that can run a
conventional web browser.
For vowels and vowel-like consonants like /ô/, visual-
acoustic biofeedback shows the resonant frequencies of the vo-
cal tract (formants). In staRt, this information is provided in the
form of a real-time LPC spectrum, with frequency on the x-axis
and amplitude on the y-axis; formants appear as peaks in the
spectrum. Figure 1 shows the acoustic signature of an adult-
like /ô/ (teal): a lowered frequency of the third formant (F3),
which closely approximates the second formant (F2). This con-
trasts with the high F3 frequency seen in a distorted /ô/ sound
(blue). Figure 1 also shows the starfish slider used to set a tar-
get frequency for F3; it defaults to a value based on normative
data from typical child speakers but can be manually adjusted.
Figure 1: LPC spectrum showing the first three formants in the
context of correct (teal) and distorted (blue) /ô/ sounds. The
blue wave was generated with the wave snapshot feature.
3. Technical Description
3.1. System architecture
The core of staRt is a real-time LPC spectrum implemented
in JavaScript. At the present time, it is supported only in the
Chrome browser. LPC is a source-filter model of the voice,
where the glottis is modeled by noise (or pulse train) and the
vocal tract is modeled by an infinite impulse response (IIR) fil-
ter. In the frequency domain, LPC can be summarized by the
equation below, where X(n) is the speech signal, H(z) is the
filter, and E(z) is the noise source [4]:
X(z) = H(z)E(z)
where:
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
4967

H(z) =
1
A(z) =
1
1 −Pp
k=1 akz−k
H(z) estimates the spectral structure of the vocal tract via cal-
culation of the LPC coefficients ak, derived using Levinson-
Durbin recursion on a given audio buffer [5].
The steps in audio processing in staRt are shown in Figure
2. In the web context, it was necessary to disable echo cancella-
tion and automatic gain control settings that are typically active
by default in the browser. Parameters including audio buffer
size, sampling rate, bit resolution, and LPC order were cho-
sen by the developers to optimize spectral envelope accuracy,
CPU usage, and visualization smoothness. The animation uses
a simplified peak-picking approach that detects local maxima
exceeding a preset magnitude threshold (visible as the white
lines superimposed over the spectrum in Figure 1). More so-
phisticated formant tracking can be done using numerical meth-
ods (Durand-Kerner) but only with lowered real-time potential.
Figure 2: Audio signal flow of staRt app
3.2. User-facing features
staRt is intended for use by a child learner under the guidance of
an SLP. A number of features aim to make the LPC visualization
understandable and motivating in the clinical setting. All of the
features listed below have been implemented in the iOS app and
are in the process of being implemented in the web app.
1. An interactive tutorial explains how to interpret the LPC
spectrum and provides examples of correct and incorrect /ô/.
2. Clinicians score each production with a button or keypress.
3. “Word Quest” and “Syllable Quest” routines present a stan-
dard set of targets in randomized order. In “Word Quest”,
stimuli are presented in an adaptive fashion based on clinician
ratings, i.e. with task difficulty increasing when accuracy is
high and decreasing when it is low.
4. Learners receive gamified reinforces, including coins added
to a virtual stack after each trial and pop-ups for high scores.
5. Profiles stored in Firebase allow clinicians to track client
progress across multiple devices.
3.3. staRt for telepractice
Although most SLPs use staRt while sitting side-by-side with
a child client, a growing number of SLPs deliver their ser-
vices via remote video calls (telepractice). We initially explored
screen-sharing of the staRt web app over Zoom or similar plat-
forms. However, this yielded a suboptimal user experience due
to the latency and loss of frequency resolution introduced in
audio streaming.
Built-in noise suppression algorithms also
pose a challenge when speech sounds are drawn out, as is com-
monly the case in speech treatment. To circumvent these limita-
tions, the staRt web interface has been integrated with WebRTC
videoconferencing technology using the Vonage Video API. In
the telepractice context, our software analyzes the speech sig-
nal on the client’s local device and transmits the data via web
sockets, re-drawing the spectrum on the clinician’s screen with
no loss of frequency resolution and minimal lag.
4. Future Work
We aim to expand staRt to reach other populations (e.g., learn-
ers of English as a second language) and speech targets (e.g.,
sibilant sounds like “s” and “sh”). We recently prototyped an
alternative display in the form of a Discrete Fourier Transform
(DFT) spectrum, which is more appropriate for the visualization
of sounds with primarily aperiodic energy, like sibilants. With
this addition, we can position staRt as a multi-purpose tool of-
fering biofeedback for a range of challenging speech sounds.
Additionally, users have requested a simplified display that
could be easily understood by younger children (the staRt app
is recommended for ages 8 and up). They have also asked for
automated feedback informing the user when they are approach-
ing their target (e.g., by changing the color of the display) in-
stead of relying on visual comparisons between the spectrum
and the target. However, our current methods for peak-picking
and formant-tracking are insufficiently stable to support these
automated features across a range of vocal tract sizes. We are
currently comparing alternative formant estimation models, in-
cluding Kalman filtering [6] and neural networks [7, 8], with
the goal of supporting more accurate formant tracking without
introducing excessive compute times or processing costs.
5. Acknowledgments
Work on staRt has been supported by NIH grant R41DC016778
and NSF I-Corps grant 2408991 (McAllister).
6. References
[1] J. McCormack, S. McLeod, L. McAllister, and L. J. Harrison, “A
systematic review of the association between childhood speech im-
pairment and participation across the lifespan,” International Jour-
nal of Speech-Language Pathology, vol. 11, no. 2, pp. 155–170,
2009.
[2] D. M. Ruscello, “Visual feedback in treatment of residual phono-
logical disorders,” Journal of Communication Disorders, vol. 28,
no. 4, pp. 279–302, 1995.
[3] E. R. Hitchcock, L. C. Ochs, M. T. Swartz, M. C. Leece, J. L. Pre-
ston, and T. McAllister, “Tutorial: Using visual–acoustic biofeed-
back for speech sound training,” American Journal of Speech-
Language Pathology, vol. 32, no. 1, pp. 18–36, 2023.
[4] H.-S. Kim, “Linear predictive coding is all-pole resonance model-
ing,” Center for Computer Research in Music and Acoustics, Stan-
ford University, 2023.
[5] J. Franke, “A Levinson-Durbin recursion for autoregressive-
moving average processes,” Biometrika, vol. 72, no. 3, pp. 573–
581, 1985.
[6] D. D. Mehta, D. Rudoy, and P. J. Wolfe, “Kalman-based autoregres-
sive moving average modeling and inference for formant and an-
tiformant tracking,” The Journal of the Acoustical Society of Amer-
ica, vol. 132, no. 3, pp. 1732–1746, 2012.
[7] Y. Dissen and J. Keshet, “Formant estimation and tracking using
deep learning.” in Interspeech, 2016, pp. 958–962.
[8] Y. Shrem,
F. Kreuk,
and J. Keshet,
“Formant estimation
and tracking using probabilistic heat-maps,”
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2206.11632, 2022.
4968

