warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Concurrent Speech and Auditory Tag Clouds for Non-Visual Web Interaction
Dhia-Eddine Merzougui1, Nilesh Tete1,2, Fabrice Maurel1, Ga¨el Dias1, Mohammed
Hasanuzzaman2,3, Aur´elien Bournonville1, Edgar Madelaine1, Thomas Berthelin Le Tellier1,
Franc¸ois Ledoyen1, Laure Poutrain-Lejeune1, Franc¸ois Rioult1, J´er´emie Pantin1
1Universit´e Caen Normandie, ENSICAEN, CNRS, Normandie Univ, GREYC UMR6072, France
2Computer Science Department, Munster Technological University, ADAPT Centre, Ireland
3School of EEECS, Queen’s University Belfast, Northern Ireland
dhia-eddine.merzougui@unicaen.fr, m.hasanuzzaman@qub.ac.uk
Abstract
Millions of visually impaired individuals face significant barri-
ers to independent information access, limiting their autonomy
and self-determination. Despite advancements in assistive tech-
nologies, challenges remain, particularly in handling web doc-
ument structure and multi-channel information transposition.
This paper addresses these issues by introducing the TagThun-
der experimental framework, which applies the “cocktail party
effect” metaphor to transpose the morpho-dispositional seman-
tics of web documents into an auditory tag cloud, enabling rapid
non-visual skimming. Additionally, it explores interactive stim-
uli for structured information scanning through discrete and
continuous guiding exploration strategies.
Index Terms: Visually impaired people, Morpho-dispositional
semantics, Concurrent speech, Interaction strategies.
1. Introduction
Ensuring equitable access to information is essential for foster-
ing autonomy and self-determination among visually impaired
people (VIP). According to the International Agency for the
Prevention of Blindness, over 43 million people worldwide are
blind, with an additional 295 million experiencing moderate-
to-severe visual impairments1. Despite digital accessibility ad-
vances, barriers remain in non-visual interaction, information
retrieval, and multimodal content representation.
While visual web document access allows users to quickly
grasp key information—such as topic, page type, and the dis-
tinction between central and peripheral elements—non-visual
frameworks still fail to fully leverage the morpho-dispositional
semantics of complex web documents.
Most existing non-
visual web search solutions minimally alter the visual structure
and rely on synthesized speech as users hover over elements.
However, this approach can be tedious, requiring users to inter-
pret fragmented speech snippets and mentally reconstruct the
physical and logical-thematic organization of a web page.
To bridge the digital divide, it is essential to support non-
visual access that is more intuitive and interactive, enabling VIP
to navigate and utilize the informational and structural informa-
tion of web document in a more efficient way. To achieve this,
we introduce the TagThunder experimental framework2, which
(1) transposes the morpho-dispositional semantics of web doc-
uments into an auditory tag cloud for rapid access and skim-
ming, and (2) implements interactive strategies for non-visual
navigation and information search, enhancing scanning capa-
bilities. TagThunder utilizes web page processing algorithms
1https://www.iapb.org/learn/vision-atlas/magnitude-and-
projections/global/
2TagThunder is an experimental framework for research protocols
and lacks full accessibility features necessary for VIP end users.
Figure 1: The TagThunder experimental framework.
as web services and a browser add-on that overlays an interac-
tive layer, enabling seamless sensory exploration of web content
through concurrent auditory feedback as illustrated in Figure 1.
2. TagThunder Architecture
Cocktail Party Effect Metaphor: The TagThunder experi-
mental framework is built on an analogy extending the psycho-
logical concept of the “cocktail party effect”. It denotes the abil-
ity to focus one’s auditory attention on a verbal stream amidst
the noisy environment of a gathering. We develop this metaphor
by considering the relationship between a VIP and the different
zones of a web page, akin to the relationship between a guest sit-
uated in a room with various discussion groups. As such, each
zone is seen as a potential discussion group, where the topic
being vocalized is the set of relevant key terms from the zone.
Processing Chain:
TagThunder is designed as a pipeline,
as shown in Figure 2.
First, the web page undergoes pre-
processing to generate an augmented HTML document con-
taining visual, logical, and content information, which is then
cleaned to remove non-visual elements.
Second, the TDBU
algorithm [1] segments the web page to identify meaningful
zones. Third, YAKE! [2] extracts key terms from each zone
based on lexical significance and local formatting. Finally, key
terms are vocalized concurrently through the Kokoro text-to-
speech model3 and 3D spatialized with the Web Audio API4
according to the zone typographical layout as proposed in [3].
3https://huggingface.co/hexgrad/Kokoro-82M
4https://developer.mozilla.org/fr/docs/Web/API/Web Audio API
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
4963

Figure 2: The TagThunder architecture.
Figure 3: Skimming and scanning strategies.
3. Skimming and Scanning Strategies
Numerous studies in psychology and human-computer interac-
tion have long explored sensory transposition. But few stud-
ies consider document visual structure as conveying morpho-
dispositional semantics. The rare exceptions focus either on tac-
tile [4] or oral [5, 6] transposition. The TagThunder experimen-
tal framework advances oral transposition by leveraging layout
as an interactive tool, enabling VIP to employ both skimming
and scanning reading strategies.
Skimming: Two skimming strategies are implemented, allow-
ing non-visual users to access information at a glance. In skim-
ming #1, the user’s reference position is set at the center of
the web page, and all key terms from different zones are vo-
calized concurrently without volume distinction. Skimming #2
lets users self-determine their reference point, with key terms
vocalized concurrently and volume adjusted by distance to the
reference point. Both strategies are illustrated in Figure 3.
Scanning: Four scanning strategies are implemented ranging
from discrete to continuous navigation stimuli. Scanning strat-
egy #1 allows the non-visual user to browse a web page while
receiving the sequential vocalization of the key terms of the
hovered zone as a unique stimulus (discrete strategy). With
respect to continuous scanning, strategy #2 provides the user
with all key terms from all zones constrained in volume by
their distance to the successive reference points of the reading
pathway. Scanning #3 simultaneously vocalizes the key terms
of the zones that intersect the pathway direction—computed
within a sequence of 5 distinct movements—constrained in vol-
ume by their distance to the current reference point. Finally,
scanning strategy #4 concurrently vocalizes a fixed set of key
terms composed of ones from the source and the target zones
with respect to the reading pathway. The number of key terms
from each zone is proportionally selected based the zone dis-
tance to the current reference point. The selection process re-
lies on the most (dis)similar key terms between zones com-
puted by the cosine similarity of phrase multilingual embed-
dings (e.g. XLM-RoBERTa), thus implementing an allocentric
strategy. The Mozilla-approved Firefox add-on is available at
https://dias.users.greyc.fr/tagthunder.zip for evaluation.
4. References
[1] W. Safi, “Non-visual vibro-tactile navigation of web pages on
touch screen devices,” PhD Thesis, University of Caen Normandie
(France), 2019.
[2] R. Campos, V. Mangaravite, A. Pasquali, A. Jorge, C. Nunes, and
A. Jatowt, “Yake! keyword extraction from single documents using
multiple local features,” Information Sciences, pp. 257–289, 2020.
[3] F. Maurel, G. Dias, S. Ferrari, J.-J. Andrew, and E. Giguet, “Con-
current Speech Synthesis to Improve Document First Glance for
the Blind,” in 2nd International Workshop on Human-Document
Interaction associated to ICDAR, 2019.
[4] O. Moured, S. Alzalabny, T. Schwarz, B. Rapp, and R. Stiefelha-
gen, “Accessible document layout: An interface for 2d tactile dis-
plays,” in 16th International Conference on PErvasive Technolo-
gies Related to Assistive Environments (PETRA), 2023, p. 265–271.
[5] J.-M. Lecarpentier, E. Manishina, F. M. S. Ferrari, E. Giguet,
G. Dias, and M. Busson, “Tag thunder: Web page skimming in
non visual environment using concurrent speech,” in 7th Workshop
on Speech and Language Processing for Assistive Technologies as-
sociated to INTERSPEECH, 2016, pp. 1–8.
[6] J. Guerreiro, “Towards screen readers with concurrent speech:
where to go next?” ACM SIGACCESS Accessibility and Comput-
ing, pp. 12–19, 2016.
4964

