warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
What Do Humans Hear When Interacting? Experiments on Selective
Listening for Evaluating ASR of Spoken Dialogue Systems
Kiyotada Mori1,2, Seiya Kawano2,1, Chaoran Liu2,3, Carlos Toshinori Ishi2, Angel Fernando Garcia
Contreras2, Koichiro Yoshino4,2,1
1Nara Institute of Science and Technology, Japan; 2Guardian Robot Project, RIKEN, Japan;
3National Institute of Informatics, Japan; 4Tokyo Institute of Technology, Japan
mori.kiyotada.mh5@naist.ac.jp, seiya.kawano@riken.jp, cliu@nii.ac.jp,
carlos.ishi@riken.jp, angel.garciacontreras@riken.jp, yoshino.k.ai@m.titech.ac.jp
Abstract
Spoken dialogue systems (SDSs) utilize automatic speech
recognition (ASR) at the front end of their pipeline. The role
of ASR in SDSs is to recognize information in user speech re-
lated to response generation appropriately. Examining selective
listening of humans, which refers to the ability to focus on and
listen to important parts of a conversation during the speech,
will enable us to identify the ASR capabilities required for SDSs
and evaluate them. In this study, we experimentally conﬁrmed
selective listening when humans generate dialogue responses
by comparing human transcriptions for generating dialogue re-
sponses and reference transcriptions. Based on our experimen-
tal results, we discuss the possibility of a new ASR evalua-
tion method that leverages human selective listening, which can
identify the gap between transcription ability between ASR sys-
tems and humans.
Index Terms:
Dialogue System, Selective Listening, ASR
Evaluation Methods
1. Introduction
Spoken dialogue systems (SDSs) listen to, understand, and re-
spond to the user’s speech. In such systems, automatic speech
recognition (ASR) performance strongly affects the accuracy of
subsequent tasks such as dialogue response generation. The ac-
curacy of ASR systems is currently very high by beneﬁting from
the development of deep learning. For example, Whisper [1]
was trained on 680,000 hours of multilingual speech data and
achieved very high performance, comparable to human profes-
sional transcribers, in evaluating word error rate (WER).
However, when using SDSs, dialogue response failures are
still caused by ASR errors [2, 3]. WER evaluates each word
equally. This property is particularly useful in dictation, where
each word needs to be evaluated equally. On the other hand,
when the importance of words needs to be considered, such as
in a dialogue, this approach does not necessarily guarantee ac-
curacy comparable to human accuracy [4, 5, 6]. Existing speech
recognition evaluation research for SDSs, such as keyword error
rate [7] and concept error rate [8] require human references in
order to appropriately evaluate word importance. Moreover, to
specify each word importance, clear tasks such as restaurant or
bus reservation is required. Thus, these methods are applicable
only to speciﬁc cases within task-oriented dialogue where hu-
man reference can be used. Our research aims to ﬁnd a solution
to this problem by observing human listening behavior during a
dialogue.
One phenomenon that suggests a method for appropriately
measuring the ASR capabilities required for SDSs is selective
listening [9] performed by humans. Selective listening is the
subconscious ability of humans to focus on important parts of
a conversation and ignore irrelevant sounds. This ability allows
humans to converse with a speciﬁc person, even in a noisy en-
vironment. The cocktail party effect is a typical example of this
phenomenon [10]. Selective listening has been veriﬁed through
psychological experiments [11, 12], and there is strong evidence
for its existence and function.
In particular, for SDSs to function correctly in noisy envi-
ronments, it is necessary to evaluate whether ASR-based tran-
scriptions achieve a performance comparable to such selective
listening by humans. However, to develop such evaluation met-
rics, it is ﬁrst necessary to correctly understand the behavior of
humans when they perform dialogue responses in noisy envi-
ronments. Existing research on the transcription task has con-
ﬁrmed that humans and ASR models are more likely to make
errors with content words than function words [13, 14]. How-
ever, humans’ listening behavior in tasks requiring accurate
transcription may be different from that in tasks requiring di-
alogue response generation. Conducting experiments to under-
stand what humans listen to during dialogue responses is neces-
sary.
In this study, we solve this problem by combining the di-
alogue response generation task and the transcription task in a
noisy environment to clarify humans’ selective listening behav-
ior during dialogue responses. In our experiment, we informed
the subjects that they would be performing dialogue response
generation. We presented them with an image indicating a con-
versation scene and a relatively short speech corresponding to
the scene only once. After the response generation, the subjects
were asked to transcribe the speech they heard based on their
memory immediately, a task that had not been instructed in ad-
vance. By experimenting this way, we clariﬁed the degree of
attention paid to each word in the dialogue response, which is
different from ordinary transcription tasks.
The analysis of the transcripts based on human recall re-
vealed that humans pay more selective attention to different
parts of speech during dialogue than in standard transcription
tasks. Speciﬁcally, we observed completely different trends, es-
pecially for content words and function words. Based on these
trends, we compared human transcription in dialogue with ASR
transcription, and the results suggested that WER-based evalu-
ation may not accurately evaluate the content used by humans
to generate dialogue responses.
Our contribution is that by focusing on human selective lis-
tening, it has been shown that the conventional ASR evalua-
tion method for SDSs based on WER is not necessarily opti-
mal. These results will serve as a bridge between psychological
experiments on selective listening and ASR evaluation methods
for SDSs. They may be useful in the development of new ASR
evaluation methods for SDSs in the future.
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
1753
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-595

Figure 1: Query Image & Answer Form
2. Experimental Procedure
We conducted an experiment to analyze selective listening in
humans when generating dialogue responses. The experiment
procedure follows. We used a portion of a visually grounded
ﬁrst-person dialogue (VFD) [15] dataset. The VFD contains
ﬁrst-person images and utterance texts corresponding to the im-
ages, and four or ﬁve examples of Japanese verbal responses.
We refer to the verbal responses as rVFD. Subjects were re-
cruited to generate subsequent dialogue responses based on
the sets of query images and utterance texts readout, short
speeches1. We transcribed the audio stimuli accurately. We re-
fer to the gold transcription as qVFD. 297 Japanese-speaking
subjects participated.
The subjects were directed to the web page 2 where they en-
gaged in dialogue response generation by following an answer
form shown in Figure 1. The subjects listened to the test audio
to verify that their devices were functioning properly and that
they could clearly hear the audio.
For the ﬁrst task, while viewing the query image, the sub-
jects listened to the audio stimuli only once and wrote a dia-
logue response to them. They focused on providing meaningful
responses that encouraged further dialogue. They were required
to avoid overly generic, bland remarks like “I see.” For the sec-
ond and hidden task, subjects move to the next webpage and are
instructed to open an audio ﬁle of the post-work survey, which
involves an unexpected task: a rigorous transcription of the au-
dio stimuli3. We hoped that this procedure would show results
indicating selective listening when humans listen for dialogue
responses. Note that we can collect only one sample from one
subject in this way.
Examples of the data obtained in the experiment are shown
in Table 1. We deﬁne items for analysis as follows:
• qsubj: Transcribed audio stimuli by a subject
• rsubj: Generated response to audio stimuli by a subject
qVFD and qsubj were used to conﬁrm selective listening.
As shown in example, qV F D and qsubj have the same meaning
but the detailed parts are different. rVFD and rsubj were used
to conﬁrm that human subjects generated qualiﬁed dialogue re-
sponses in our task setting; they focused on response generation
1The experiment was conducted from September 4 to September
8, 2023, using CrowdWorks (https://crowdworks.jp), a crowdsourcing
service, in conjunction with GitHub Pages.
2https://kwnsiy.github.io/splitted_speech/
pinmic/20230325-161026-551/400.html
3The given instruction follows: “What was the speech in the audio
ﬁle, which you generate dialogue responses to in this work? Remember
the audio as accurately as possible, and type them into the text box.
When your memory is fuzzy or you are unsure what you heard, just
enter anything related to the audio: a word, a phrase, a string, or a topic.
Please do not return to the previous page to listen to the audio again.”
Table 1: Example Data Used in the Experiment
Original
Japanese
qVFD
見てごらんよ、この大きなカブ。
qsubj
見て！大きなカブでしょ？
rVFD
本当だ。大きいカブが育って良かったですね
rsubj
わあ、本当に大きいですね。
Translation
English
qVFD
Look at this big turnip.
qsubj
Look! Big turnips, right?
rVFD
True. I’m glad you grew a big turnip.
rsubj
Wow, it’s huge.
Length of Audio Stimulus (s)
Frequency
Figure 2: Speech Duration Distribution
appropriately, in other words.
Although there were initially 297 samples, due to issues in
the experimental procedure, only 274 samples matched both the
audio stimulus and corresponding dialogue responses. We mod-
iﬁed the notation of qsubj in some cases. For example, some
subject put their transcription as “He said hello,” it was revised
to “Hello”. Some samples that failed to ﬁt the question’s inten-
tion were deleted, such as the subject tried rewriting his/her di-
alogue responses when they were required to put the transcrip-
tion. After the reformatting and revising, out of 274 samples,
246 available samples remained for the analysis.
We used VFD readings as audio stimuli recorded in noisy
areas of a shopping mall. The 246 audio stimuli used in our
experiment had an average duration of 2.08 seconds and a vari-
ance of 0.79, with most audio stimuli being less than 4 seconds,
as shown in Figure 2. The duration was short enough to be fully
reproduced if attention was directed to them, because humans
have the ability to transcribe such audio accurately if the task is
transcription [16].
The audio was recorded with a 16-channel microphone ar-
ray, and we mixed them into a single channel to create the au-
dio stimulus for human subjects. For ASR systems used for the
following experiments, the audio stimulus was enhanced with
sound source-positioned beamforming [17].
3. Evaluation Methods
We analyzed human selective listening by comparing human
transcriptions obtained from the experiment with transcriptions
from the ASR model. Two ASR models, Whisper base and
Whisper large-v2, transcribed the audio stimulus to compare
with the human transcriptions.
The ASR models also tran-
scribed the audio stimulus with an additional visual-conditioned
prompt for the query images using PromptingWhisper [18] in
1754

order to match the input conditions for humans and ASR mod-
els as much as possible. Google Cloud Translate v2 translated
PromptingWhisper’s visual conditional prompts from English
to Japanese to provide Japanese vocabulary for the model.
We calculated WER, Character Error Rate (CER), which
is a character-based version of WER, and the semantic similar-
ity of these transcriptions to qVFD using multilingual Sentence
BERT (S-BERT), stsb-xlm-r-multilingual [19].
Since tran-
scription behavior is expected to differ between content words
and function words, we prepare evaluation metrics as follows:
“WER CONT” for indicating WER of content words, “WER
FUNC” for indicating WER of function words, “CER CONT”
for indicating CER of content words, and “CER FUNC” for
indicating CER of function words. For comparing the recog-
nition accuracy of function words and content words, only the
function words or content words were extracted after remov-
ing spaces from qsubj. Content words were deﬁned as nouns,
verbs, adjectives, adverbs, and proper nouns. Function words
were deﬁned as particles, auxiliary verbs, prepositions, con-
junctions, pronouns, numerals, subordinating conjunctions, de-
terminers, and interjections. We used a morphological analysis
engine GiNZA [20] to extract the function and content words.
In Japanese, the same word may be written using different kana
or kanji. To address this issue, we converted all kanji in the
transcriptions to hiragana in accordance with previous research
on Japanese speech recognition. This process may make it dif-
ﬁcult to evaluate homonyms, but we did not observe any such
cases in the audio stimuli used in this study. We converted each
character to hiragana using Pykakasi [21] for the evaluation.
To conﬁrm that humans appropriately solved the dialogue
response tasks in the experiment, we evaluated the dialogue re-
sponses of rVFD and rsubj with Athena-RR [22], a response
ranking model.
Athena-RR was trained to binary classify
whether a given dialogue response is a candidate response for a
given context. In this experiment, qVFD was input as the con-
text. The candidate dialogue responses were rVFD and rsubj.
Since Athena-RR only supports English, responses were trans-
lated from Japanese to English by Google Cloud Translate v2.
4. Result
Table 2 shows the results of our experiments. We conﬁrmed
that humans exhibit selective listening to generate dialogue re-
sponses by analyzing the WER and semantic similarity of qVFD
and qsubj. If the audio stimulus (qVFD) does not contain content
words or function words, we eliminated them from the calcula-
tion of WER FUNC and WER CONT.
When comparing Base A+V and Human A+V, we found
that, despite Base A+V being superior in WER, the human tran-
scription had a higher semantic similarity with the reference on
S-BERT. Large-A+V also shows a similar trend to Base A+V.
This means that humans focus more on the semantic aspects
of speech in dialogue response generation, reproducing tran-
scriptions that are more semantically similar. In addition, we
can see that Human A+V transcribes content words more accu-
rately than Base A+V but is less accurate in transcribing func-
tion words. This suggests that when humans generate dialogue
responses, they exclude function words that do not signiﬁcantly
contribute to content understanding from their attention and
place more importance on content words.
We used a two-tailed paired t-test to determine whether
there is a signiﬁcant difference between recognition accuracy
of the function and contents words, with a signiﬁcance level of
5%. The null hypothesis is that no difference exists between the
Table 2: Mean WERs on Content and Function Words and Sen-
tence BERT Score
(A: audio, V: visual)
Model
Human
Base
Large
Base
Large
Modality
A+V
A
A
A+V
A+V
WER
0.41
0.40
0.12
0.36
0.17
WER FUNC
0.48
0.29
0.14
0.28
0.17
WER CONT
0.40
0.51
0.14
0.44
0.18
CER
0.32
0.22
0.06
0.27
0.16
CER FUNC
0.44
0.29
0.10
0.24
0.14
CER CONT
0.35
0.31
0.09
0.32
0.18
S-BERT
0.87
0.76
0.94
0.77
0.93
Table 3: Paired t-test for WERs on Content and Function Word
(A: audio, V: visual, ∗: p < 0.10, ∗∗: p < 0.05)
Model
Human
Base
Large
Base
Large
Modality
A+V
A
A
A+V
A+V
p (WER)
0.06∗
0.00∗
0.42
0.00∗∗
0.52
p (CER)
0.02∗∗
0.77
0.65
0.07∗
0.93
recognition accuracy of the function and content words. The
results of signiﬁcance tests are shown in Table 3. The null hy-
pothesis was rejected in CER of Human A+V, but not rejected
in WER of Human A+V. The results suggested that humans pay
more attention to content words captured by CERs. Prompting-
Whisper’s visual speech recognition results also show the same
trend as the results of the speech-only input.
The average ratings of the dialogue responses of rVFD and
rsubj by Athena-RR were 0.56 and 0.64. The null hypothesis
was that rsubj has a lower rating than rVFD, and a one-tailed
U-test was conducted, with a signiﬁcance level of 5%. As a
result, the null hypothesis was not rejected. It probably means
that the subjects can respond to the same degree as the response
examples.
Humans can respond despite having higher WER and se-
mantic similarity than the ASR model. The WER of the con-
tent words is signiﬁcantly lower than that of the function words.
Therefore, we conﬁrmed that humans focus on listening to con-
tent words to generate dialogue responses. In other words, the
results suggest that a WER that does not leverage selective lis-
tening is an inappropriate evaluation method for speech recog-
nition systems to be used for dialogue systems.
5. Discussion of New Metrics for Evaluating
ASR in SDSs
From the experiments, we have learned that human listening
during speech interaction tends to focus on content words. It is
difﬁcult to adequately measure the ASR performance for SDSs
using existing WER alone. We compared qsubj with qVFD to
identify trends that humans were unable to transcribe, implicitly
judging it as unimportant, and estimated the importance of each
part of speech (POS) using the following method.
Multiple regression analysis was done with the probabilistic
gradient descent method to analyze selective listening to differ-
ent POS. An explanatory variable was the number of each POS
of qVFD. A target variable was the sum of the number of each
POS of qsubj. The partial regression coefﬁcients for the POS are
expected to be small, a state that tends to avoid attention when
generating dialogue responses. Conversely, when the partial re-
1755

Table 4: 5-fold Cross Validation for Multiple Regression
MAEOptim
MAEUni
R2
Optim
R2
Uni
Mean
1.53
1.70
0.70
0.55
Table 5: Human Attention for Part-of-speech
POS
Weight
POS
Weight
ADJ
1.41
AUX
0.85
ADV
1.38
NUM
0.90
VERB
1.18
INTJ
0.21
NOUN
1.12
ADJ
0.21
PROPN
0.84
PRON
0.19
PART
1.51
PUNCT
0.50
DET
1.12
CCONJ
-0.27
SCONJ
0.90
SYM
0.00
gression coefﬁcients for the POS are expected to be signiﬁcant,
this state tends to attract attention. The calculation for the mul-
tiple regression analysis is shown in Equation (1):
Y = β0 ∗NOUN + β1 ∗PROPN + β2 ∗VERB + · · ·
(1)
The target variable Y is the sum of the number of POSs of
qsubj, and βn is the partial regression coefﬁcient. Explanatory
variables NOUN and PROPN represent the number of POSs of
qVFD. The same is true for other POSs. “Symbol” POS was ex-
cluded from the explanatory variables. The intercept was ﬁxed
at 0 to clarify the meaning of the partial regression coefﬁcients.
Table 4 indicate a mean absolute error (MAE) and the co-
efﬁcient of determination (R2) for the test data of the model
optimized with qsubj and qVFD, respectively. MAEUni and
R2
Uni represent the MAE and the R2 for the test data of the
model where all the POS weights are 1. The MAEOptim and
R2
Optim represent the same methods for the optimized model.
The model optimized by multiple regression for qsubj and qVFD
has a smaller MAE than the model where every POS weight is
1. It indicates that the model obtained by multiple regression is
more adaptable to unknown data than the model with equivalent
weights for every POS.
The coefﬁcients for each POS obtained by multiple regres-
sion are shown in Table 5. The results show that humans pay
more attention to content words, such as nouns, verbs, and ad-
jectives, and less attention to function words, such as particles
and auxiliary verbs. The weights in Table 5 were the coefﬁ-
cients with the lowest MAE in the 5-fold cross-validation.
The weights of each POS obtained were then used to de-
ﬁne Human-WWER (H-WWER) as a new Weighted WER
(WWER) [23] that leverages human selective listening, using
the weights of each POS obtained in the regression. The weight
of each operation in the minimum edit distance for WER varies
depending on the POS of the word being edited.
Table 6 shows the results of the H-WWER evaluation of the
human (Human A+V), Whisper base (Base A and Base A+V),
and Whisper large-v2 (Large A and Large A+V) transcriptions.
Unlike WER, the H-WWERs of Human transcription are lower
than the H-WWERs of Whisper base transcription. Of course,
the weight parameters used for Table 6 are determined by the
test data; such a comparison is unfair. However, this result sug-
gests that by deﬁning speech recognition evaluation methods
that leverage human selective listening, perhaps we can evalu-
ate whether an ASR model is transcribing the necessary content
for dialogue responses.
Table 6: H-WWER on Transcriptions (A: audio, V: visual)
Model
Human
Base
Large
Base
Large
Modality
A+V
A
A
A+V
A+V
H-WWER
0.48
0.56
0.28
0.57
0.33
H-WCER
0.38
0.41
0.20
0.44
0.26
6. Related Works
Speech recognition evaluation methods instead of WER, Se-
mantic Distances [24], which are based on semantic similar-
ity, have been proposed. Moreover, Sasindran et al. proposed
Heval [25], a hybrid speech recognition evaluation method that
uses WER and semantic similarity advantages. Heval detects
important and unimportant words by semantic similarity and
derives the minimum edit distance for each. Our experiment
supports the approaches of these previous studies from the per-
spective of human behavior during dialogue.
Millet et al. [26] conﬁrmed that supervised ASR models in
phoneme identiﬁcation differed signiﬁcantly from human per-
ceptual space. A typical supervised ﬁne-tuned ASR model such
as Whisper and human speech recognition errors will likely dif-
fer signiﬁcantly, as conﬁrmed in our experiment.
Wikman et al. [27] used functional magnetic resonance
imaging to analyze differences in brain activity between shad-
owing and listening using audiovisualized dialogue. Their re-
sults showed that an identical frontal network was activated,
although its peak activation location differed. The results of
this experiment suggest that different kinds of selective listen-
ing may occur in dialogues when responding and listening at-
tentively from a neuroscience perspective. In our experiment,
we conﬁrmed this trend of selective listening during dialogue.
7. Conclusion
This paper conducted experiments on selective listening during
human dialogue response generation. We designed a human
subject experiment to conﬁrm our hypotheses that human has
different trends to ASR systems in response generation and con-
ducted a large-scale evaluation with 297 subjects. Our results
conﬁrmed that humans exhibit selective listening for sounds
during responses, and human transcriptions after the response
generation have different trends to transcriptions of existing
ASR systems. This result also suggests that WER is not nec-
essarily the best evaluation metric for ASR modules in SDSs,
from a novel perspective, human perception. Based on our anal-
ysis, we proposed H-WWER, which leverages the selective lis-
tening of humans to POS, and has the potential to more appro-
priately evaluate the accuracy of ASR systems in terms of rec-
ognizing what is necessary for dialogue responses than WER.
Future work will ﬁrst address how the human transcription
used in experiments differs from transcriptions made immedi-
ately before responses. This difference stems from the experi-
mental limitation that humans cannot transcribe and respond si-
multaneously. One way to address this issue is using biological
signals such as electroencephalography [28]. To prevent such a
problem caused by human working memory [29], we can also
reﬁne the experimental process in the future.
Although our study identiﬁed an average trend of selective
listening for each POS, the degree of attention given to different
parts of speech will likely vary depending on the language. A
more detailed analysis is necessary based on actual dialogue
contents across languages.
1756

8. Acknowledgement
A part of this work was supported by JST MOONSHOT Grant
Number JPMJMS2236 and JSPS KAKENHI 22K17958.
9. References
[1] A. Radford, J. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak
supervision,” in International conference on machine learning.
PMLR, 2023, pp. 28 492–28 518.
[2] F. Chang, T. Muniyappa, K. Sathyendra, K. Wei, G. Strimel, and
R. McGowan, “Dialog act guided contextual adapter for person-
alized speech recognition,” in ICASSP 2023-2023 IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP).
IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–5.
[3] M. Wang, I. Shafran, H. Soltau, W. Han, Y. Cao, D. Yu, and
S. El, “Retrieval augmented end-to-end spoken dialog models,”
in ICASSP 2024-2024 IEEE International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2024, pp.
12 056–12 060.
[4] X. He, L. Deng, and A. Acero, “Why word error rate is not a
good metric for speech recognizer training for the speech transla-
tion task?” in 2011 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics,
Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2011, pp. 5632–
5635.
[5] S. Kaﬂe and M. Huenerfauth, “Evaluating the usability of auto-
matically generated captions for people who are deaf or hard of
hearing,” in Proceedings of the 19th International ACM SIGAC-
CESS Conference on Computers and Accessibility, 2017, pp. 165–
174.
[6] R. Janine, S. Giampiero, and S. Torbjørn, “Perceptual and Task-
Oriented Assessment of a Semantic Metric for ASR Evaluation,”
in Proc. Interspeech 2023, 2023, pp. 2158–2162.
[7] Y. Park, S. Patwardhan, K. Visweswariah, and S. C. Gates, “An
empirical analysis of word error rate and keyword error rate.” in
Interspeech, vol. 2008, 2008, pp. 2070–2073.
[8] M. Boros, W. Eckert, F. Gallwitz, G. Gorz, G. Hanrieder, and
H. Niemann, “Towards understanding spontaneous speech: Word
accuracy vs. concept accuracy,” in Proceeding of Fourth Inter-
national Conference on Spoken Language Processing. ICSLP’96,
vol. 2.
IEEE, 1996, pp. 1009–1012.
[9] R. Hari, M. H¨am¨al¨ainen, E. Kaukoranta, J. M¨akel¨a, S.-L.
Joutsiniemi, and J. Tiihonen, “Selective listening modiﬁes activ-
ity of the human auditory cortex,” Experimental Brain Research,
vol. 74, pp. 463–470, 1989.
[10] B. Arons, “A review of the cocktail party effect,” Journal of the
American Voice I/O society, vol. 12, no. 7, pp. 35–50, 1992.
[11] M. G. Woldorff and S. A. Hillyard, “Modulation of early auditory
processing during selective listening to rapidly presented tones,”
Electroencephalography and clinical neurophysiology, vol. 79,
no. 3, pp. 170–191, 1991.
[12] D. Woods, S. A. Hillyard, and J. Hansen, “Event-related brain
potentials reveal similar attentional mechanisms during selective
listening and shadowing.” Journal of Experimental Psychology:
Human Perception and Performance, vol. 10, no. 6, p. 761, 1984.
[13] A. Bell, J. Brenier, M. Gregory, C. Girand, and D. Jurafsky, “Pre-
dictability effects on durations of content and function words
in conversational english,” Journal of Memory and Language,
vol. 60, no. 1, pp. 92–111, 2009.
[14] C. Mansﬁeld, S. Ng, G. Levow, R. Wright, and M. Ostendorf,
“Revisiting parity of human vs. machine conversational speech
transcription,” Proc. Interspeech 2021, pp. 1997–2001, 2021.
[15] H. Kamezawa, N. Nishida, N. Shimizu, T. Miyazaki, and
H.Nakayama, “A visually-grounded ﬁrst-person dialogue dataset
with verbal and non-verbal responses,” in Proceedings of the 2020
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process-
ing (EMNLP), 2020, pp. 3299–3310.
[16] “Achieving human parity in conversational speech recognition,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:1610.05256, pp. 1–13, 2016.
[17] C. T. Ishi, J. Even, and N. Hagita, “Speech activity detection
and face orientation estimation using multiple microphone arrays
and human position information,” in 2015 IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS).
IEEE,
2015, pp. 5574–5579.
[18] P. Peng, B. Yan, S. Watanabe, and D. Harwath, “Prompting the
hidden talent of web-scale speech models for zero-shot task gen-
eralization,” in Proc. Interspeech 2023, 2023, pp. 396–400.
[19] N. Reimers and I. Gurevych, “Sentence-bert: Sentence embed-
dings using siamese bert-networks,” in Proceedings of the 2019
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process-
ing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Lan-
guage Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), 2019, pp. 3982–3992.
[20] H. Matsuda, “Ginza version 4.0: Improving syntactic structure
analysis through japanese bunsetsu-phrase extraction api inte-
gration,” 2021, accessed on Dec 31, 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://megagon.ai/ginza/
[21] H. Miura, “Pykakasi documentation ― pykakasi 2.0.1 documen-
tation,” 2020, accessed on Aug 17, 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://pykakasi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html
[22] V. Harrison, R. Rajasekaran, and M. Walker, “A transformer-
based response evaluator for open-domain spoken conversation,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.04424, pp. 1–18, 2023.
[23] H. Nanjo, T. Misu, and T. Kawahara, “Minimum bayes-risk de-
coding considering word signiﬁcance for information retrieval
system.” in INTERSPEECH, 2005, pp. 561–564.
[24] S. Kim, A. Arora, D. Le, C. Yeh, C. Fuegen, O. Kalinli, and
M. Seltzer, “Semantic distance: A new metric for asr performance
analysis towards spoken language understanding,” in Interspeech
2021, 2021, pp. 1977–1981.
[25] H. Y. Z. Sasindran, T. Prabhakar, and S. Rao, “H eval: A new
hybrid evaluation metric for automatic speech recognition tasks,”
in 2023 IEEE Automatic Speech Recognition and Understanding
Workshop (ASRU).
IEEE, 2023, pp. 1–7.
[26] J. Millet and E. Dunbar, “Perceptimatic: A human speech percep-
tion benchmark for unsupervised subword modelling,” in Inter-
speech 2020, 2020, pp. 4881–4885.
[27] P. Wikman, A. Ylinen, M. Leminen, and K. Alho, “Brain activ-
ity during shadowing of audiovisual cocktail party speech, con-
tributions of auditory–motor integration and selective attention,”
Scientiﬁc Reports, vol. 12, no. 1, p. 18789, 2022.
[28] Z. Xie, J. Wei, W. Lu, Z. Li, C. Wang, and G. Zhang, “Eeg-based
fast auditory attention detection in real-life scenarios using time-
frequency attention mechanism,” in ICASSP 2024-2024 IEEE In-
ternational Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Process-
ing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2024, pp. 1741–1745.
[29] A. Baddeley, “Working memory,” Science, vol. 255, no. 5044, pp.
556–559, 1992.
1757

