warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Eigenvoice Synthesis based on Model Editing for Speaker Generation
Masato Murata1,2, Koichi Miyazaki1, Tomoki Koriyama1, Tomoki Toda2
1CyberAgent, Japan
2Nagoya University, Japan
murata masato@cyberagent.co.jp, miyazaki koichi xa@cyberagent.co.jp,
koriyama tomoki@cyberagent.co.jp, tomoki@icts.nagoya-u.ac.jp
Abstract
Speaker generation task aims to create unseen speaker
voice without reference speech. The key to the task is defining
a speaker space that represents diverse speakers to determine
the generated speaker trait.
However, the effective way to
define this speaker space remains unclear. Eigenvoice synthesis
is one of the promising approaches in the traditional parametric
synthesis framework, such as HMM-based methods, which
define a low-dimensional speaker space using pre-stored
speaker features.
This study proposes a novel DNN-based
eigenvoice synthesis method via model editing. Unlike prior
methods, our method defines a speaker space in the DNN
model parameter space. By directly sampling new DNN model
parameters in this space, we can create diverse speaker voices.
Experimental results showed the capability of our method to
generate diverse speakers’ speech. Moreover, we discovered a
gender-dominant axis in the created speaker space, indicating
the potential to control speaker attributes.
Index Terms: speech synthesis, speaker generation, task arith-
metic, model editing, eigenvoice synthesis
1. Introduction
Text-to-speech (TTS) technology has become widely used in
various applications such as character voice creation in video
content, conversational assistants, and audiobook narration.
Due to the demand to generate voices with diverse speech ex-
pressions, various studies have tackled related tasks, specifi-
cally focused on generating speech with diverse speaker char-
acteristics. Since traditional TTS models rely on the training
datasets, they can only generate speech of existing seen speak-
ers in the dataset but cannot generate that of unseen speakers.
To address this limitation, zero-shot TTS has been proposed to
generate speech of unseen speakers using a reference speech
of the target speaker. However, this approach requires a refer-
ence speech, which is not always available. In other words, it
has difficulty in generating “really unseen” speakers’ voices. In
contrast, there is a task called “speaker generation” that aims
to generate diverse voices of unseen speakers without requiring
reference speech [1]. In the speaker generation task, defining
a speaker space that represents diverse speakers is necessary to
determine the speaker characteristics to be generated. However,
the effective way to define this speaker space remains unclear,
and several prior studies have explored various approaches.
Eigenvoice synthesis [2] is one of the approaches for
the speaker generation task that defines a low-dimensional
speaker space using pre-stored speaker-dependent representa-
tions. Then, this speaker space is spanned by basis vectors ex-
tracted from speaker-dependent representations of multiple pre-
stored speakers (called base speakers). In this created speaker
space, arbitrary speaker characteristics are represented as the
weighted sum form of basis vectors. These basis vectors are
called “eigenvoice”, which are mutually orthogonal and repre-
sent the dominant component among base speakers. This eigen-
voice method [3, 4, 5] has been applied to TTS [2] and voice
conversion [6] tasks. Previous studies succeeded in generat-
ing diverse speech characteristics by changing the weight co-
efficients of the basis vector. Furthermore, this eigenvoice ap-
proach is applicable not only to the speaker generation task, but
also to speaker adaptation and speech style control along the
dominant axis.
Although the eigenvoice methods are based on traditional
probabilistic models, such as Hidden Markov Model (HMM),
there are several other deep neural network (DNN)-based ap-
proaches based on a similar idea of creating a speaker space.
Speaker embedding-based methods generate unseen speaker by
sampling speaker embeddings from speaker distribution [1, 7].
Text prompt-based methods represent speaker characteristics
using text prompts [8, 9, 10]. However, since these works rely
on additional modules designed for the task, complex training
processes or extensive datasets are required.
In contrast, recent research proposed a model merging
speaker interpolation method that does not require any specifi-
cally designed additional modules [11]. Model merging is one
of the model editing methods that interpolates the model param-
eters of two base models [12]. They reported that applying the
model merging to TTS models can control speaker attributes.
By extending this model merging-based method, we pro-
pose a novel DNN-based eigenvoice synthesis method based on
model editing. Although the prior method [11] represents the
generated speaker characteristics by simply interpolating be-
tween two base models, our proposed method represents arbi-
trary speaker characteristics in a low-dimensional linear space
in the high-dimensional DNN model parameter space.
Our
method defines this linear space as “speaker space”. We can
obtain new speakers’ TTS model parameters by directly sam-
pling from this speaker space, which achieves diverse speaker
voice generation. We evaluated the generated speakers’ voices
regarding naturalness, intelligibility, and speaker diversity. The
results showed that our proposed method can generate diverse
speakers while keeping speech quality. Moreover, our analysis
suggests the presence of a gender-dominant axis in the defined
speaker space, indicating the potential for controlling gender at-
tributes. Audio samples are available on our demo page1.
The main contributions of this paper are as follows:
• To the best of our knowledge, our method is the first DNN-
based eigenvoice synthesis method that represents diverse
1https://muramasa2.github.io/
model-editing-eigenvoice/
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
5523
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-277

speaker traits in high-dimensional model parameter space.
• We demonstrate that our proposed method can synthesize di-
verse speakers’ voices without using external modules.
• Our experimental results suggest that the speaker space cre-
ated by the proposed method has a gender-dominant axis, po-
tentially enabling attribute manipulation.
2. Model merging speaker interpolation
based on task arithmetic
Task Arithmetic is one of the model editing methods that di-
rectly edits trained model parameters using a task vector, which
is defined as the difference between pre-trained model parame-
ters and fine-tuned model parameters [13]. Each task vector is
considered to include the abilities for the target task. By scaling
and combining task vectors through various arithmetical opera-
tions, it creates new model parameters as follows:
τ = θft −θpre
(1)
θnew = θpre + α · τ
(2)
where τ is the task vector between a fine-tuned model θft and a
pre-trained model θpre, and θnew is the resultant new model pa-
rameters created with this task vector. The resultant model is re-
ported to obtain different model behaviors, such as performance
improvements in image classification and speech recognition
tasks [12, 14], the acquisition of multiple language-related task
capabilities [13, 15], and obtaining intermediate attribute out-
puts in image and speech synthesis [16, 11]. Unlike conven-
tional transfer learning, it does not require additional training.
Based on the task arithmetic method, model merging
speaker interpolation method [11] was proposed for speaker
generation task. The resultant model parameters by merging
single-speaker models A and B are defined as follows:
θα = (1 −α)θA + αθB
(3)
= θpre + {(1 −α)τA + ατB}
(4)
where α is the merging coefficient, θA and θB are the existing
fine-tuned weight parameters of each base TTS model, and τA
and τB are the task vectors for each base TTS model.
3. Proposed method
Inspired by the model merging-based speaker interpolation
method [11], we propose a novel eigenvoice synthesis method
based on model editing. Instead of the interpolating between
two base models, our proposed method represents arbitrary
speaker characteristics in a low-dimensional linear space in
the DNN model parameter space. While the prior eigenvoice
method [2] used the stack of the HMM model parameters for
base speakers, we utilize task vectors as speaker representations
to obtain the basis vectors of the speaker space. By sampling
from this speaker space, we can obtain diverse speakers’ TTS
model parameters, which allows us to generate diverse speaker
voices.
We first prepare N single-speaker TTS models as the base
models (N is on the order of 101 to 104), each fine-tuned from
the same pre-trained initialization. Subsequently, we extract
task vectors for each speaker (the updated value of the model
parameter from the pre-trained model) and apply 1D flatten to
it into M-dim vector, denoted as ai ∈RM×1, (i = 1, . . . , N).
Then, M denotes the number of the model parameters updated
during fine-tuning process (M is on the order of 105 to 1010).
Speaker 2
Base TTS model 
Speaker Matrix
𝐚!
𝐚"
Speaker 1
Base TTS model 
Speaker N
Base TTS model 
…
𝐚#
…
𝐀=
Speaker 
parameter vector
SVD
…
…
Basis vectors 𝐁
2nd basis vector 𝐛"
1st basis vector 𝐛!
Nth basis vector 𝐛#
𝐛! 𝐛"
𝐛#
…
𝐚#$%
New Speaker
TTS model 
Σ
Weight w&$%,#
Weight w&$%,!
Weight w&$%,"
 𝐰&$%~𝒩(𝟎, 1
𝑁𝐈)
Sampling
Figure 1: The process of generating the new speakers’ TTS
model by the proposed method. The blue and red rectangles
show the speaker parameter vectors and basis vectors of the
speaker space. The white rectangle shows the elements of the
randomly sampled speaker coefficient vector.
The M value is extremely large compared to the number of base
speakers N (i.e., M ≫N). In this study, this M-dim vector
ai is referred to as the speaker parameter vector. By stacking
N speaker parameter vectors as column vectors, we create a
speaker matrix A = [a1, . . . , aN] ∈RM×N. Each column
vector ai is considered to be a representation of the speaker
characteristics of the i-th speaker. We then apply singular value
decomposition (SVD) to this speaker matrix A, as follows:
A = UΣV⊤
(5)
where U ∈RM×N is a matrix whose columns are the left
singular vectors of A, Σ ∈RN×N is a diagonal matrix con-
taining singular values of A, and V ∈RN×N is a matrix
whose columns are the right singular vectors of A. Now we
define the column vector of V⊤as a speaker coefficient vector
wi, (i = 1, . . . , N) as follows:
V⊤= [w1, . . . , wN].
(6)
Then, each speaker parameter vector ai can be expressed as
follows:
ai = UΣwi = Bwi
(7)
where B ∈RM×N represents the basis vectors and wi is the
speaker coefficient vector corresponding to the i-th speaker.
This indicates that each base speaker parameter vector ai can
be represented as a weighted sum form of the basis vectors B
with the speaker coefficient vector wi.
3.1. Speaker space in model parameter space
As explained above, each base speaker parameter vector ai can
be represented as a weighted sum form of the basis vectors B
with the speaker coefficient vector wi. Hence, the speaker coef-
ficient vector wi is considered to include each speaker’s infor-
mation. In other words, in this low-dimensional linear space
spanned by the basis vectors B, any speaker parameter vec-
tor can be represented by manipulating the speaker coefficient
vector wi. This paper refers to the low-dimensional model pa-
rameter linear space spanned by the basis vectors as speaker
5524

Table 1: The MOS and WER score with 95% confidence interval
(CI) for the comparative method and proposed method.
Methods
MOS (↑)
WER (↓)
GT
4.29 ± 0.11
4.20 ± 0.10
x-vector
base speaker
3.96 ± 0.13
4.21 ± 0.09
generated speaker
3.99 ± 0.14
2.51 ± 0.06
proposed
base speaker
4.00 ± 0.12
3.18 ± 0.06
generated speaker
3.81 ± 0.16
2.20 ± 0.06
space. Consequently, our proposed method can generate diverse
speaker voices by varying the speaker coefficient vector wi in
the speaker space. Thus, this method is considered an eigen-
voice approach. This indicates the applicability to speaker adap-
tation and speech style control along the dominant axis similar
to the prior eigenvoice methods [2, 3, 4, 5, 6].
3.2. Sampling strategy of the speaker coefficient vector
To generate arbitrary speakers’ voices, we use the sampling
strategy for the speaker coefficient vector w that matches the
statistics of the base speakers ai, (i = 1, . . . , N). In this study,
the speaker matrix A is standardized as a preprocessing step
before performing SVD. The statistic values for the seen base
speaker parameter vectors are calculated as follows:
E[ai] = 0
(8)
Cov[ai] = 1
N AA⊤= UΣV⊤VΣ⊤U⊤
(9)
= 1
N UΣΣ⊤U⊤.
(10)
This study adopted a Gaussian sampling for a speaker coeffi-
cient vector wn from a normal distribution N
 0, 1
N I

. The
statistical values of the arbitrary speaker parameter vector an
are then formulated as bellow:
wn ∼N

0, 1
N I

(11)
E[an] = UΣE[wn] = 0
(12)
Cov[an] = UΣCov[wn]Σ⊤U⊤= 1
N UΣΣ⊤U⊤.
(13)
Under this sampling strategy, these statistic values are consis-
tent with those of the seen base speaker parameter vector ai.
Consequently, by sampling the speaker coefficient vector wi
from the normal distribution N
 0, 1
N I

, we can generate arbi-
trary speaker parameter vectors an that statistically match the
seen base speaker parameter vectors ai.
4. Experiments
4.1. Experimental settings
4.1.1. Datasets
In the experiments, we used the VCTK [17] dataset which con-
tains approximately 44 hours of English speech from 109 speak-
ers. From this dataset, we extracted 10 speakers’ data (p225,
p226, p227, p228, p229, p230, p231, p232, p237, and p241) in-
cluding 5 male and 5 female speakers as the base speaker subset.
4.1.2. Base Speaker Models
We
adopted
the
implementation
and
configuration
of
Conformer-FastSpeech2 (CFS2) [18, 19, 20] from ESPnet [21].
Figure 2: t-SNE visualization of the speaker embeddings of the
base (blue dots) and generated speakers (red triangles).
For waveform generation,
we used a pre-trained HiFi-
GAN [22] vocoder from the ParallelWaveGAN repository2. As
base speaker models, we created single-speaker TTS models for
each of the 10 speakers by fine-tuning on their respective data.
Then, we used the same pre-trained model initialization trained
on the full VCTK dataset. During fine-tuning, we updated only
the parameters of the variance adaptor and decoder module as
these components are speaker-dependent. In total, 5 × 1010
model parameters were updated through fine-tuning.
4.1.3. Comparative Method
As a comparative method, we developed an x-vector-based
multi-speaker TTS model using the same CFS2 architecture.
As a speaker encoder, this approach employed a pre-trained x-
vector module [23] from SpeechBrain [24] (trained on the Vox-
Celeb1 [25] and VoxCeleb2 [26] datasets). This baseline model
was trained from scratch using the 10 base speakers’ data, as
described in Section 4.1.1. To generate new speakers’ voices
using the baseline model, we adopted the same sampling strat-
egy as the proposed model. Specifically, we applied SVD on the
stack of the x-vectors and created new speaker x-vectors using
the x-vector speaker space obtained by SVD.
4.2. Speech quality evaluation
In speech synthesis, generated speech sometimes include arti-
facts that can lead to naturalness and intelligibility degradation.
Thus, to evaluate naturalness and intelligibility, we employed
the mean opinion score (MOS) and word error rate (WER)
metrics, respectively. We generated speech samples with 10
test sentences randomly selected from the VCTK test set for
100 generated speakers. We also evaluated the ground truth
speech (GT) from the base speakers in the VCTK dataset and
synthesized speech from each base speaker TTS model (base
speaker). We denote our proposed method as “proposed” and
the x-vector-based comparative method as “x-vector”.
For the MOS evaluation, 40 participants rated the natural-
ness of the given speech samples on a 5-point scale. Each par-
ticipant evaluated 5 randomly selected speech samples for each
method, resulting in a total of 25 speech samples per partici-
pant. Participants were recruited through a crowdsourcing plat-
form, Amazon Mechanical Turk3. For the intelligibility evalua-
tion, we calculated WER scores using a pre-trained Conformer
model [19] from ESPnet Model Zoo4.
2https://github.com/kan-bayashi/
ParallelWaveGAN
3https://www.mturk.com/
4https://github.com/espnet/espnet_model_zoo
5525

0.80
0.85
0.90
0.95
1.00
Cosine Similarity
0.0
0.2
0.4
Probability
Base Speaker
Generated Speaker
Figure 3: The distribution of the cosine similarity between each
generated speaker and the nearest base speaker (GT).
Table 1 shows the MOS and WER results for each
method. Compared with the x-vector-based method, the pro-
posed method achieved a comparable MOS score and a slightly
better WER score. Being consistent with previous research on
model merge interpolation [11], this indicates that the proposed
method can generate speech with high quality on par with the
x-vector-based approach. However, it must be noted that the
primary focus of this work is not to achieve high-quality speech
synthesis quality but to generate diverse speaker characteristics.
4.3. Speaker diversity evaluation
To evaluate the diversity of the generated speakers, we calcu-
lated the similarities of speaker embeddings of generated and
base speakers. We generated speech samples using 10 test sen-
tences for 100 generated speakers. We also used the synthe-
sized speech from the 10 base speaker TTS models with 100
test sentences randomly selected from the VCTK test set. Then,
we extracted speaker embeddings from the generated speakers
and the base speakers (both GT speech and TTS-synthesized
speech) using the Resemblyzer toolkit [27].
We first investigated the distribution of speaker embeddings
of base speakers (TTS) and generated speakers using t-SNE.
Figure 2 shows the t-SNE visualization of the speaker embed-
dings. The base speakers (blue dots) were clustered into distinct
groups corresponding to the 10 base speakers, consisting of 5
male and 5 female speakers. In contrast, the generated speakers
(red triangles) were more scattered than those of the base speak-
ers and surrounded by these base male and female clusters. This
suggests that the proposed method can generate diverse speaker
voices, including both male and female.
To evaluate the diversity of generated speakers, we also in-
vestigated the distribution of cosine similarities to the speaker
embeddings of GT base speakers. For each generated speaker,
we calculated the similarity between the generated speaker and
each of the 10 GT-based speakers. Then, we obtained the max-
imum cosine similarity to the 10 GT speakers (i.e., the simi-
larity to the most similar base speaker). The same procedure
was followed for the base speakers (TTS) and generated speak-
ers (x-vector-based). If the maximum similarity was close to
1.0, it meant that the generated speaker was very similar to any
of the base speakers. Otherwise, it can be said that the gener-
ated speaker had various characteristics that differed from the
base speakers. Figure 3 shows the distribution of maximum
cosine similarities between the speaker embeddings of the gen-
erated speaker (proposed) and the GT base speakers. In our
proposed method, the maximum cosine similarities were dis-
tributed from 0.82 to 0.97, indicating that generated speakers
included speakers with different speaker characteristics from
that of the base speakers. Even compared with the generated
speaker from x-vector-based method, in which maximum co-
sine similarities were distributed from 0.78 to 0.97, our pro-
posed method achieved comparable speaker diversity. Thus, the
p226
p227
p237
p241
p232
p229
p228 p230
p231 p225
Figure 4: The visualization of the primary elements of speaker
coefficient vectors of base speaker parameter vectors. Each dots
correspond to the base speakers.
(a) Male Speaker
(b) Female Speaker
Figure 5: F0 plot of the base speaker (blue solid) and inverted
speaker (red dash) samples for both cases where the original
speaker is male and female.
result showed that our proposed method is capable of represent-
ing a broader range of speaker characteristics compared to the
base TTS models.
5. Discussion
For further understanding of the extracted eigenvoice axis, we
analyzed the base speaker coefficient vectors. Through the anal-
ysis of the speaker coefficient vectors wi, (i = 1, . . . , N) ob-
tained via SVD, we observed that the signs (positive or negative
number) of the first principal component of the speaker coeffi-
cient vector corresponded to the gender attribute, as shown in
Figure 4. To investigate this tendency, we conducted an exper-
iment where we inverted only the sign of the first component
of each 10-base speaker’s coefficient vector and generated the
corresponding inverted speaker parameter vector. The resulting
models, based on the inverted speaker parameter vectors, gen-
erated speech with the opposite gender to the original one. We
also observed the pitch curve differences between the synthe-
sized speech of the original speaker and the inverted speaker by
using the Harvest [28] method. In Figure 5, distinct pitch dif-
ferences are observed between the original and inverted speak-
ers for both cases where the original speaker is male and fe-
male. This indicates the possibility that the first basis axis of
the speaker space is related to gender attributes and the pos-
sibility of controlling gender attributes by manipulating model
parameters along this axis.
6. Conclusions
In this study, we proposed a model editing-based eigenvoice
synthesis method to generate diverse speakers’ voices. We con-
ducted subjective and objective evaluations of the generated
speakers’ voices from various perspectives.
The experimen-
tal results demonstrated that our method can generate diverse
speakers’ speech while maintaining high naturalness and intel-
ligibility. Furthermore, we discovered a gender-dominant at-
tribute axis, such as gender, in the created speaker space, indi-
cating the potential for attribute manipulation.
In future work, we plan to explore various attribute spaces
created by our method, such as emotions and styles.
5526

7. References
[1] D. Stanton, M. Shannon, S. Mariooryad, R. Skerry-Ryan, E. Bat-
tenberg, T. Bagby, and D. Kao, “Speaker generation,” in Proc.
ICASSP, 2022, pp. 7897–7901.
[2] K. Shichiri, A. Sawabe, T. Yoshimura, K. Tokuda, T. Masuko,
T. Kobayashi, and T. Kitamura, “Eigenvoices for hmm-based
speech synthesis,” in Proc. ICSLP, 2002, pp. 1269–1272.
[3] R. Kuhn, J.-C. Junqua, P. Nguyen, and N. Niedzielski, “Rapid
speaker adaptation in eigenvoice space,” IEEE Trans. Speech Au-
dio Process., vol. 8, pp. 695–707, 2000.
[4] R. Kuhn, P. Nguyen, J.-C. Junqua, R. Boman, N. Niedzielski,
S. Fincke, K. Field, and M. Contolini, “Fast speaker adaptation
using a priori knowledge,” in Proc. ICASSP, vol. 2, 1999, pp. 749–
752.
[5] P. Nguyen,
R. Kuhn,
J.-C. Junqua,
N. Niedzielski,
and
C. Wellekens, “Eigenvoices: A compact representation of speak-
ers in model space,” Annales Des T´el´ecommunications, vol. 55,
no. 3, pp. 163–171, Mar 2000.
[6] T. Toda, Y. Ohtani, and K. Shikano, “Eigenvoice conversion based
on gaussian mixture model,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2006, pp. paper
1717–Thu2A3O.5.
[7] A. Watanabe, S. Takamichi, Y. Saito, D. Xin, and H. Saruwatari,
“Mid-attribute speaker generation using optimal-transport-based
interpolation of gaussian mixture models,” in Proc. ICASSP,
2023, pp. 1–5.
[8] Y. Zhang, G. Liu, Y. Lei, Y. Chen, H. Yin, L. Xie, and Z. Li,
“Promptspeaker: Speaker generation based on text descriptions,”
in Proc. ASRU, 2023, pp. 1–7.
[9] R. Shimizu, R. Yamamoto, M. Kawamura, Y. Shirahata, H. Doi,
T. Komatsu, and K. Tachibana, “Prompttts++:
Controlling
speaker identity in prompt-based text-to-speech using natural lan-
guage descriptions,” in Proc. ICASSP, 2024, pp. 12 672–12 676.
[10] Z. Chen, X. Liu, E. Cooper, J. Yamagishi, and Y. Qian, “Gener-
ating speakers by prompting listener impressions for pre-trained
multi-speaker text-to-speech systems,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2024,
pp. 4428–4432.
[11] M. Murata, K. Miyazaki, and T. Koriyama, “An attribute inter-
polation method in speech synthesis by model merging,” in Proc.
Interspeech, 2024, pp. 3380–3384.
[12] M. Wortsman, G. Ilharco, S. Y. Gadre, R. Roelofs, R. Gontijo-
Lopes, A. S. Morcos, H. Namkoong, A. Farhadi, Y. Carmon,
S. Kornblith et al., “Model soups: averaging weights of multi-
ple fine-tuned models improves accuracy without increasing in-
ference time,” in Proc. ICML, 2022, pp. 23 965–23 998.
[13] G. Ilharco, M. T. Ribeiro, M. Wortsman, L. Schmidt, H. Ha-
jishirzi, and A. Farhadi, “Editing models with task arithmetic,”
in Proc. ICLR, 2023.
[14] G. Ramesh, K. Audhkhasi, and B. Ramabhadran, “Task vector al-
gebra for asr models,” in Proc. ICASSP, 2024, pp. 12 256–12 260.
[15] P. Yadav, D. Tam, L. Choshen, C. Raffel, and M. Bansal, “Ties-
merging: resolving interference when merging models,” in Proc.
NeurIPS, 2024.
[16] O. Avrahami, D. Lischinski, and O. Fried, “Gan cocktail: mixing
gans without dataset access,” in Proc. ECCV, 2022, pp. 205–221.
[17] J. Yamagishi, C. Veaux, and K. MacDonald, “CSTR VCTK
Corpus: English multi-speaker corpus for CSTR voice cloning
toolkit,” University of Edinburgh. The Centre for Speech Technol-
ogy Research (CSTR), 2016.
[18] P. Guo, F. Boyer, X. Chang, T. Hayashi, Y. Higuchi, H. Inaguma,
N. Kamo, C. Li, D. Garcia-Romero, J. Shi et al., “Recent develop-
ments on espnet toolkit boosted by conformer,” in Proc. ICASSP,
2021, pp. 5874–5878.
[19] A. Gulati, C.-C. Chiu, J. Qin, J. Yu, N. Parmar, R. Pang,
S. Wang, W. Han, Y. Wu, Y. Zhang, and Z. Zhang, “Conformer:
Convolution-augmented transformer for speech recognition,” in
Proc. Interspeech, 2020, pp. 5036–5040.
[20] Y. Ren, C. Hu, X. Tan, T. Qin, S. Zhao, Z. Zhao, and T.-Y. Liu,
“Fastspeech 2: Fast and high-quality end-to-end text to speech,”
in Proc. ICLR, 2021.
[21] S. Watanabe, T. Hori, S. Karita, T. Hayashi, J. Nishitoba, Y. Unno,
N. Enrique Yalta Soplin, J. Heymann, M. Wiesner, N. Chen,
A. Renduchintala, and T. Ochiai, “ESPnet: End-to-end speech
processing toolkit,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2018, pp. 2207–2211.
[22] J. Kong, J. Kim, and J. Bae, “HiFi-GAN: Generative adversarial
networks for efficient and high fidelity speech synthesis,” in Proc.
NeurIPS, vol. 33, 2020, pp. 17 022–17 033.
[23] D. Snyder, D. Garcia-Romero, G. Sell, D. Povey, and S. Khudan-
pur, “X-vectors: Robust dnn embeddings for speaker recognition,”
in Proc. ICASSP, 2018, pp. 5329–5333.
[24] M. Ravanelli, T. Parcollet, P. Plantinga, A. Rouhe, S. Cornell,
L. Lugosch, C. Subakan, N. Dawalatabad, A. Heba, J. Zhong,
J.-C. Chou, S.-L. Yeh, S.-W. Fu, C.-F. Liao, E. Rastorgueva,
F. Grondin, W. Aris, H. Na, Y. Gao, R. D. Mori, and Y. Ben-
gio, “SpeechBrain:
A general-purpose speech toolkit,” 2021,
arXiv:2106.04624.
[25] A. Nagrani, J. S. Chung, and A. Zisserman, “VoxCeleb: A Large-
Scale Speaker Identification Dataset,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2017,
pp. 2616–2620.
[26] J. S. Chung, A. Nagrani, and A. Zisserman, “VoxCeleb2: Deep
Speaker Recognition,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2018, pp. 1086–1090.
[27] L. Wan, Q. Wang, A. Papir, and I. L. Moreno, “Generalized end-
to-end loss for speaker verification,” in Proc. ICASSP, 2018, pp.
4879–4883.
[28] M. Morise, “Harvest: A high-performance fundamental frequency
estimator from speech signals,” in Proc. Interspeech, 2017, pp.
2321–2325.
5527

