warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Simultaneous Speech Translation Integrated Compact Multiple Sound Spot
Synthesis System On A Laptop Carried Out With A Backpack
Takuma Okamoto1, Michiyo Kono1
1National Institute of Information and Communications Technology, Japan
okamoto@nict.go.jp
Abstract
Multiple sound spot synthesis, which can present different
sounds in different zones simultaneously using a loudspeaker
array, is an important spatial sound presentation technology
for speech and audio applications. We have previously imple-
mented a portable multiple sound spot synthesis system with a
compact circular array of 16 loudspeakers, which can be car-
ried out with a suitcase. To further improve the mobility, we
implement a very small 16-channel amplifier directly mounted
under the compact circular array. Additionally, we implement a
system integrating multiple sound spot synthesis and multilin-
gual simultaneous speech-to-speech translation on-premise on a
laptop without network connection. Finally, the complete demo
system can be carried out with a backpack. In the Show & Tell,
we demonstrate four-language sound spot synthesis combined
with multilingual simultaneous speech-to-speech translation us-
ing the compact demo system.
Index Terms: loudspeaker array, multilingual simultaneous
speech-to-speech translation, multiple sound spot synthesis,
portable demo system, sound field control
1. Introduction
Multiple sound spot synthesis, which can present different
sounds in different zones simultaneously using a loudspeaker
array, is an important spatial sound presentation technology
for multilingual speech communication, museums, and other
speech and audio applications.
We have proposed spatial
Fourier transform-based multiple sound spot synthesis methods
with linear and circular loudspeaker arrays [1,2].
2. Previous System
To make multiple sound spot synthesis technology widely avail-
able, we have implemented a portable multiple sound spot syn-
thesis system using a compact circular array of 16 loudspeak-
ers [3,4].12 Each loudspeaker driver is 32 mm, and the diameter
of the circular array is only 178.6 mm. The spatial Nyquist fre-
quency is then about 4.9 kHz. The implemented system, con-
structed from the compact loudspeaker array, an amplifier for 16
loudspeakers including D/A (430 mm × 300 mm × 90 mm), a
loudspeaker stand, a laptop, a tablet and cables, can be carried
out with a single suitcase (Fig. 1(a)). The demo system is imple-
mented with PureData (Pd) [5] and controlled by the tablet via
open sound control. The previous demo system realized four-
or eight-language sound spot synthesis for four or eight direc-
tions combined with multilingual neural text-to-speech (TTS)
1https://ast-astrec.nict.go.jp/MultipleSoundSpotSynthesis/en/
2https://youtu.be/In8AfVcoTC4
Figure 1: (a) Previous portable multiple sound spot synthesis
system carried out with a suitcase [3, 4]. (b) Proposed com-
pact multiple sound spot synthesis system combined with multi-
lingual simultaneous speech-to-speech translation implemented
on-premise on a laptop and carried out with a backpack.
developed by NICT [6]. Additionally, we have implemented
a four-language simultaneous speech-to-speech translation sys-
tem3 with multiple sound spot synthesis [4], by introducing neu-
ral network-based multilingual speech translation technologies
(automatic speech recognition (ASR) [7] + simultaneous inter-
pretation [8] + TTS [6]) developed by NICT and implemented
in VoiceTra4, which is 21-language speech-to-speech transla-
tion application for smartphones.
The previous demo system has the following issues.
• Although the previous demo system is portable, a suitcase is
required for transportation. This is because only the circular
array is compact but the multichannel amplifier and D-sub 25
cables connecting amplifier and loudspeaker array are still
bulky. However, further downsizing of the demo system is
required because transporting the demo system with a suit-
case is not convenient. (Meanwhile applications for speech
communication technologies that can be easily demonstrated
elsewhere using a smartphone.)
• The previous demo system by itself can only perform mul-
tiple sound spot synthesis using pre-prepared sound sources
including synthesized speech. A demo combined with mul-
3https://youtu.be/uyTRd5Hu6hw
4https://voicetra.nict.go.jp/en/index.html
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
3539

Figure 2: Implemented very small amplifier directly mounted
under a circular array of 16 loudspeakers.
tilingual simultaneous speech-to-speech translation cannot
be conducted using only the previous demo system, and
another server-based multilingual simultaneous speech-to-
speech translation system with network connection is re-
quired.
3. Proposed System
To further improve the mobility and convenience of the demo
system, we implement a very small 16-channel amplifier
(120 mm × 90 mm × 18 mm ≈1/60 of previous amplifier) with
two optical digital audio input terminals for 16-channel audio
signal inputs and an AC adopter input terminal for power sup-
ply, which can be directly mounted under the circular array and
connected with two thin optical cables. Then, D-sub 25 cables
connecting amplifier and loudspeaker array are not required. By
the development, the demo system can be drastically downsized
while keeping the synthesis quality and output power compared
with the previous demo system. Additionally, we implement a
system integrating multiple sound spot synthesis and multilin-
gual simultaneous speech-to-speech translation on-premise on a
laptop without network connection. Finally, the complete demo
system can be carried out with a backpack (Fig. 1(b)). The con-
figuration of the implemented compact demo system is shown
in Fig. 3.
4. Show & Tell Demonstration
In the Show & Tell, we conduct three types of demonstrations
using the compact demo system carried out with a backpack.
1. Eight-language sound spot synthesis (Fig. 4(a)).
2. Eight
different
English
content
sound
spot
synthesis
(Fig. 4(b)).
3. Four-language sound spot synthesis combined with multilin-
gual simultaneous speech-to-speech translation (Japanese to
English, Chinese and Korean) (Fig. 4(c)).
5. Acknowledgments
We thank NICT Universal Communication Research Institute
(UCRI) members for their help in implementing multilingual si-
multaneous speech-to-speech translation system. We also thank
NICT Innovation Design Initiative (IDI) members for the social
deployment of multiple sound spot synthesis technology. This
study was partly supporred by JSPS KAKENHI Grant Number
JP23K11177.
6. References
[1] T. Okamoto and A. Sakaguchi, “Experimental validation of spa-
tial Fourier transform-based multiple sound zone generation with
DELL XPS 13 9340
Laptop
Intel Ultra 7 155H 1.40 GHz
64 GB memory
Windows 11 Pro
USB cable
RME Digiface USB
Audio interface
Circular array of 16 loudspeakers
for multiple sound spot synthesis
and speech-to-speech translation
Portable stand
AC
adopter
Wireless microphone
Alvoxcon UM-420
for speech recognition
Small 16-channel ampliﬁer
Two optical cables
Figure 3: Configuration of implemented compact demo system
carried out with a backpack.
Figure 4: (a) Eight-language sound spot synthesis. (b) Eight
different English content sound spot synthesis.
(c) Four-
language sound spot synthesis combined with multilingual si-
multaneous speech-to-speech translation (Japanese to English,
Chinese and Korean).
a linear loudspeaker array,” J. Acoust. Soc. Am., vol. 141, no. 3,
pp. 1769–1780, Mar. 2017.
[2] T. Okamoto, “Analytical methods of generating multiple sound
zones for open and baffled circular loudspeaker arrays,” in Proc.
WASPAA, Oct. 2015.
[3] ——, “Multilingual sound spot synthesis systems,” in Proc. Inter-
noise, Aug. 2023, pp. 5861–5865.
[4] T. Okamoto,
K. Ueno,
T. Okabe,
K. Tani,
Y. Yoshikata,
M. Sudo, M. Kuwahara, and K. Hikita, “Improved portable
multiple sound spot synthesis system with a baffled circular
array of 16 loudspeakers,” in WASPAA 2023 Demonstrations,
Oct. 2023. [Online]. Available: https://www.okamotocamera.com/
waspaa 2023 demo.pdf
[5] M. S. Puckette, “Pure data,” in Proc. ICMC, Sept. 1997.
[6] T. Okamoto, Y. Ohtani, and H. Kawai, “Mobile PresenTra: NICT
fast neural text-to-speech system on smartphones with incremental
inference of MS-FC-HiFi-GAN for low-latency synthesis,” in Proc.
Interspeech, Sept. 2024, pp. 997–998.
[7] P. Shen, X. Lu, X. Hu, N. Kanda, M. Saiko, and C. Hori, “The
NICT ASR system for IWSLT 2014,” in Proc. IWSLT, Dec. 2014,
pp. 113–118.
[8] W. Xiaolin, M. Utiyama, and E. Sumita, “Online sentence segmen-
tation for simultaneous interpretation using multi-shifted recurrent
neural network,” in Proc. MTSummit, Aug. 2019, pp. 1–11.
3540

