warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
The Faetar Speech Recognition Benchmark
Michael Ong1, Sean Robertson2,3, Leo Peckham1,2, Alba Jorquera Jimenez de Aberasturi1, Paula
Arkhangorodsky1, Robin Huo1,2, Aman Sakhardande1,4, Mark Hallap4, Naomi Nagy1, Ewan
Dunbar1,2,3
1Department of Linguistics, University of Toronto, Canada
2Department of Computer Science, University of Toronto, Canada
3Department of French, University of Toronto, Canada
4Department of Philosophy, University of Toronto, Canada
michael.ong@mail.utoronto.ca, sdrobert@cs.toronto.edu, leo.peckham@mail.utoronto.ca,
alba.jorquera@mail.utoronto.ca, p.arkhangorodsky@mail.utoronto.ca,
robin.huo@mail.utoronto.ca, aman.sakhardande@mail.utoronto.ca,
mark.hallap@mail.utoronto.ca, naomi.nagy@utoronto.ca, ewan.dunbar@utoronto.ca
Abstract
We introduce the Faetar Automatic Speech Recognition
Benchmark, a benchmark corpus designed to push the limits
of current approaches to low-resource speech recognition. Fae-
tar, a Franco-Provenc¸al variety spoken primarily in Italy, has no
standard orthography, has virtually no existing textual or speech
resources other than what is included in the benchmark, and is
quite different from other forms of Franco-Provenc¸al. The cor-
pus comes from field recordings, most of which are noisy, for
which only 5 hours have matching transcriptions, and for which
transcriptions are inconsistent. The corpus contains an addi-
tional 20 hours of unlabelled speech. We report baseline results
from multilingual speech foundation models with a best phone
error rate of 30.5%, using a pipeline that continues pre-training
on the foundation model using the unlabelled set.
Index Terms: Speech Recognition, Low Resource, Faetar,
Self-Supervised, Unsupervised
1. Introduction
Speech technology for low-resource languages has been ac-
celerated by foundation models. However, for the most part,
demonstrations of the benefits of pre-training or cross-language
transfer approaches for low-resource automatic speech recog-
nition (ASR) have been broad-coverage evaluations aggregated
over many languages and corpora at once [1]. This masks vast
performance differences. The value of human linguistic diver-
sity makes it important for the next era of speech recognition to
deal with limited data, and speech in difficult conditions.
We introduce a new benchmark corpus of Faetar, a variety
of the Franco-Provenc¸al language which developed in isolation
in Italy, far from other speakers of Franco-Provenc¸al, in close
contact with Italian and its dialects [2, 3]. Faetar has less than
1000 speakers, in Italy and in the diaspora [4]. The benchmark
represents the majority of all archived speech recordings of Fae-
tar in existence, and is not available from any other source.
The language has no standard written form.
However,
as it is endangered, preservation, learning, and documentation
are a priority for many community members.
As such, au-
tomatic speech recognition would provide the valuable abil-
ity to transcribe and index Faetar recordings. This situation
is typical of many languages, as is the quantity and quality of
the data set, around five hours of labelled speech (transcribed
quasi-phonetically), and around 20 hours unlabelled, from field
recordings, generally noisy, of semi-spontaneous speech.
We believe exploration and advances can be made quickly
by drawing the community’s attention to a common problem.
The benchmark seeks to encourage researchers interested in
bringing speech recognition to more languages to closely exam-
ine issues that arise in extreme conditions, rather than focusing
on average-case performance, which hides a long tail with poor
performance. Building a useful ASR system for Faetar is made
difficult by a confluence of factors: the recordings are noisy,
there are only a few hours transcribed, and, perhaps most sig-
nificantly, the transcription conventions are internally inconsis-
tent due to the lack of a standardized orthography. Most of the
world’s languages do not have extensive high-quality anono-
tated speech corpora, and many do not have standard writing
systems, which means that these issues represent a major con-
cern moving forward, yet they are likely under-represented in
available corpora, which are generally biased towards making
use of the best-quality data available. As such, the Faetar ASR
Benchmark is an important case study.
The benchmark, including baseline and evaluation code, is
freely available subject to an online data-sharing agreement.1
At the time of writing, the test decodings are under embargo, in
order to discourage researchers from optimizing on the test set.
The benchmark is thus currently available as a challenge task.
2. Related Work
Low-resource speech benchmarks began with IARPA Babel,2
which aimed to facilitate the rapid development of robust ASR
and keyword-spotting systems on languages with limited tran-
scribed data [5]. In 2020 and 2021, Babel data were repur-
posed for the NIST OpenASR challenges, with similar goals.
In 2018, a low-resource speech recognition challenge for In-
dian languages was held [6], using about 40 hours of labelled
data per language.
While all of the languages in the above challenges are
severely more resource-limited than English, substantial addi-
tional speech and textual data can be found for all of the lan-
guages used in the above challenges [7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12]. Thus,
in this sense, the Faetar corpus is very different from corpora
used in previous challenges, as there is almost no additional
publicly available data, either speech or text, that challenge par-
1https://perceptimatic.github.io/faetarspeech
2https://www.iarpa.gov/index.php/
research-programs/babel, last accessed April 8, 2024.
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
4028
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1045

ticipants could make use of. Furthermore, the amount of la-
belled data is substantially smaller than most challenges. Previ-
ous challenges also generally use higher-quality data. While
other endangered languages such as Yolox´ochitl Mixtec and
Sierra Totonac are similarly under-resourced [13, 14, 15, 16,
17], these languages have not been explicitly presented to the
community as benchmarks.
Recent benchmark evaluations have been developed for
multilingual and low-resource speech recognition, focusing on
evaluating on as many languages as possible [18, 12, 19, 20, 1].
This breadth represents a great advance over the field’s tra-
ditional attention to a few languages.
However, aggregate
scores mask radical variation across languages and corpora
[1, 20, 21, 22]. Importantly, attacking the difficulties posed by
the Faetar benchmark would help both with very low-resource
languages without consistent orthography, and in unlocking
the use of lower-quality data in higher-resource languages.
This benchmark complements breadth-first approaches with the
depth of a test case posing problems of significant interest.
3. Materials
3.1. Language
Faetar (pronounced [fajdar]) is spoken in Faeto, in the Apulia
region of southern Italy, and is very similar to the language spo-
ken in the neighbouring town of Celle St. Vito. The population
of both towns is less than 1000, and Faetar is threatened by
population loss and language shift to Italian. The language has
absorbed many Italian loan words, and, because of bilingual-
ism, Faetar speakers often code-switch with Italian. The lan-
guage is very different from Italian both in its structure and its
base vocabulary. It is a variety of Franco-Provenc¸al, a member
of the southern group of Gallo-Romance languages. Franco-
Provenc¸al was brought to Apulia by a group of speakers be-
tween the 12th and 15th centuries (according to tradition, sol-
diers fighting for Charles of Anjou), and the community has
since been isolated from the rest of the Franco-Provenc¸al speak-
ing community [3, 4]. There is also a Faetar-speaking diaspora,
including in the Greater Toronto Area in Canada [23].
Faetar has no standard orthography. Our recordings were
transcribed for linguistic analysis using phonetic symbols. The
transcription is a mix of phonetic and phonemic transcription.
For example, the word for table is sometimes transcribed as
[tawulin@] and sometimes as [tawolin:], reflecting variability in
the pronunciation; but the word for above is always transcribed
as [indjok] even though it is sometimes pronounced [ijok]. This
is unlike typical spelling systems, which tend to be phonemic,
but similar to transcriptions of oral collections in other lan-
guages, which often include limited dialectal variation. Given
the lack of an agreed-upon orthography, it would be a large task
to standardize the transcription (see Section 6).
The phoneme inventory of Faetar is not agreed upon, but
a set of core phones is given in Table 1, based on [3]. In ad-
dition to the 29 phonemes in Table 1, geminate versions of all
consonants are phonemically contrastive in most cases. They
are transcribed in our corpus using the length marker [:]. Some
consonants have allophonic variants (/g/ can be pronounced as
fricative [G]; fricatives and affricates can all be voiced), and /i
e u o/ have allophonic variants [I E U O] respectively, in closed
syllables. There are no phonemic length distinctions for vow-
els, but it is possible to have hiatus (same vowel across adja-
cent syllables), in which case we also used the length marker
in the transcription [:], and treated the resulting doubled vowel
as its own phone. There are a number of diphthongs; in our
transcription, we treat these as vowel–glide sequences. There
are three additional phones transcribed that are not mentioned
in [3], namely [h] (which mostly occurs at the end of a word,
and is rarely very audible), and both single and double [2], a
stressed variant of /@/. In total, with geminates, doubled vowels,
and variant phones, we have a 68-phone phone set.
3.2. Data
Data were extracted from the Faetar collection of the Her-
itage Language Variation and Change in Toronto (HLVC) cor-
pus [24]. The corpus contains 184 recordings of native Faetar
speakers collected in Faeto between 1992 and 1994 (the Home-
land subset) and 37 recordings of first- and second-generation
heritage Faetar speakers collected in Toronto between 2009 and
2010 (the Heritage subset) [24]. Some of the recordings were
interviews (Interview), designed to elicit spontaneous speech,
and, in others, participants were asked to describe scenes and
objects from a picture book (Words). The recordings were saved
at a 44.1 kHz sampling rate (in the case of the Homeland record-
ings, this is the sampling rate of the digitization from analog
cassette tapes).
Recordings can be noisy, with considerable
background noise, back-channels, and interruptions.
The source data set consisted of long-form recordings, of
which 68 of the Homeland recordings, and 26 of the Heritage
recordings, had been at least partially transcribed at the utter-
ance level. Some of the transcriptions (mostly those in the Her-
itage subset) were extracted from ELAN annotation files, which
had utterance-level alignments [25], while the remainder were
extracted from Microsoft Word files, by manually mapping nu-
merical values from each of the two fonts used (PalPhon or IPA-
Phon) to modern UTF-8 encodings, and removing anything that
did not look like a transcription (glosses, identifiers, etc.).
For the portion which was transcribed but not aligned, we
adapted the JHU Arabic MGB-3 recipe for segmentation and
alignment [26], built on Kaldi [27]. This splits recordings and
recording-level transcriptions by i-vector speaker diarization,
splits each diarized segment into smaller, overlapping segments,
aligns each overlapping segment to the text (allowing for mi-
nor changes to the text) with a seed ASR system, and stitches
the overlapping segments back together using string matching.
We trained the seed system on the aligned part of the data.
To generate our automatic alignments, we used a monophone,
speaker-independent Gaussian mixture model-Hidden Markov
model (GMM-HMM) system. We found this worked better than
triphone or speaker-dependent models, presumably because of
the limited aligned data available for training. We then used
PyAnnote 3.0 [28, 29] to adjust utterance boundaries according
to voice-activity detection and label them with speaker diariza-
tion. Because the pipeline is error-prone, we manually threw out
utterances whose boundaries were clearly misaligned or whose
transcriptions were clearly wrong. On the test set (see below),
we made a more rigorous manual pass to correct alignments.
After obtaining time-alignments for the whole data set, fur-
ther filtering was performed to remove the interviewer’s speech
(generally clearly marked), to remove utterances with duration
less than 500 ms, and to remove utterances in Italian or En-
glish. While code-switching is common in Faetar speech (and
thus, a recognizer should deal with it) removing utterances with
substantial parts of Italian or English did not result in a major
loss of data. As such, we take it that the (simpler) problem
we propose, which consists of transcribing Faetar with mini-
mal code-switching, is a reasonable approximation to the real
4029

Bilabial
Labiodental Alveolar Postalveolar
Palatal
Velar
Plosive
p
b
t
d
k
g
Nasal
m
n
ñ
N
Trill/flap
r
Fricative
f
v
s
S
Affricate
ts
tS
dZ
Approximant
j
w
Lateral
l
L
i
u
e
@
o
a
High
Mid
Low
Front
Central
Back
Table 1: The core phonetic inventory of Faetar. See text for discussion of additional phones used in transcriptions.
Table 2: Distribution of data in (hh:)mm:ss.
Homeland
Heritage
Total
M
F
M
F
dev
Int.
8:43
0:31
0:00
2:35
11:49
test
Int.
13:10
13:33
10:54 9:16
46:54
train
Words
42:31
58:29
51:44 9:07
4:30:17
Int.
15:58
27:56
32:49 14:41
1h
Int.
11:08
13:44
32:50 0:51
58:34
10min
Int.
0:00
4:25
5:00
0:24
9:49
unlab
Words
7:29:11
0:05:24
19:55:21
Int.
8:23:18
0:51:31
Mixed
2:12:47
0:53:09
problem. For the purposes of ASR research, it will be easier to
interpret the results in a more homogeneous corpus. Neverthe-
less, as Faetar has been in contact with Italian for a long time,
and substantially longer than it has been in contact with English
(English only appears in the Heritage portion of the corpus), we
took a more lenient approach to identifying Italian utterances.
The presence of a single English word, drawn from a closed list
that were clearly not words in Faetar, was sufficient to mark an
utterance as English. On the other hand, for Italian, we required
that there be three words in a row, again from a closed list.
We split the aligned data into train, dev, and test, ensuring
a reasonable balance between male and female speakers, and
between Homeland and Heritage subsets, in both train and test.
We do not include the Words subset in the dev or test splits, as
we take it that this is too easy an evaluation: many of the utter-
ances consist of individual words, often the same word. Antici-
pating compatibility with the ML-SUPERB benchmark [1], we
also construct 1h and 10min subsets of train. We distribute the
remainder of the data, for which we did not have transcriptions,
or for which the (long-form) file could not be time-aligned, as
an unlabelled set, after obtaining VAD and speaker diarization
using PyAnnote 3.0. Because we determined that many of the
shorter utterances extracted in this way were not speech, we dis-
carded all unlabelled utterances less than 1.5 seconds. Table 2
shows the distribution of data in the corpus.
4. Evaluation
The measure of performance is phone error rate (PER) on the
test set, calculated by aligning reference and hypothesis tran-
scripts by the unit-cost Levenshtein algorithm. Given all utter-
ances u in a partition U, the number of phones in a reference
transcript nu, and the number of errors in a model’s hypothesis
transcript eu, the PER on U is defined as:
PERU =
P
u∈U eu
P
u∈U nu × 100%.
(1)
The phonetic transcriptions contain spaces between words,
making both word error rate (WER) and character error rate
(CER) possible alternative metrics. WER is too severe as the
transcriptions include substantial phonetic variation that would
not ordinarily be present in orthographic transcripts. PER and
CER (which differ by the exclusion or inclusion of spaces, and
by the treatment of affricates and long phones) do not differ
by more than a few percentage points in our observations. We
chose PER (no spaces, affricates and long phones single units)
to avoid making the task unnecessarily difficult. We return to
PER in the context of inconsistent transcriptions in Section 6.
5. Baseline Experiments
We consider unconstrained and constrained baseline systems,
where by “constrained” we mean that the model is not trained
on data sets other than train (thus precluding pre-trained mod-
els trained on other languages, as well as unlab). Considering
constrained approaches separately allows us to focus on ques-
tions of model architecture, rather than on pre-training. For con-
strained models, as discussed in Section 3.2, force-alignment of
transcriptions to audio was performed with Kaldi [27], initially
using a monophone, speaker-independent HMM-GMM model,
then refined at the end using a triphone, speaker-dependent
model; both were composed with a 5-gram, character-level,
modified Kneser-Ney language model [30] trained on the (post-
alignment) transcriptions from the train partition. We report
performance in Table 3, ± the half width of a 95% bootstrap
confidence interval calculated using K = 10000 samples.
In the unconstrained condition, we fine-tune existing multi-
lingual models MMS [31] and mHuBERT-147 [32] on the train
set. Both are masked prediction models; MMS is a wav2vec 2.0
model that takes a language-specific adapter, head, and fine-
tuning strategy. Rather than initializing the adapter layers from
scratch, we initialize the adapters and head with a model fine-
tuned on Italian. mHuBERT-147 takes an iterative refinement
approach, training first on classification according to classes de-
rived from k-means clustering on spectral features, then, after
the first iteration, on targets derived from clustering the internal
representations of the previous one. As [32] obtained best re-
sults with three iterations, we fine-tune the third iteration. For
4030

Table 3: Phone error rates (PERs, %) for each model (rows)
and partition (columns), ± 1
2-width of 95% confidence interval.
Training Type
Train
Dev
Test
Mono +5gr
train
Constr
47.1
±0.6
65.9
±1.8
62.6
±0.8
Tri +5gr
train
Constr
9.6
±0.4
58.2
±2.0
56.7
±0.9
MMS
Fine-tune (FT)
train
34.4
±0.5
39.9
±2.8
33.0
±0.8
mHuBERT-
147 FT
train
26.6
±0.5
41.1
±2.6
33.6
±0.8
ESPnet-MMS
train
36.0
±0.5
43.0
±2.8
35.9
±0.8
MMS
Pre-train (PT)
train
+ unlab
31.4
±0.5
38.7
±2.7
31.5
±0.8
MMS
Self-train (ST)
train
+ unlab
31.4
±0.5
36.6
±2.7
31.0
±0.8
MMS PT +
ST
train
+ unlab
30.0
±0.5
36.4
±2.7
30.5
±0.8
ESPnet-MMS
1hr
39.3
±0.5
44.4
±2.8
37.4
±0.8
ESPnet-MMS
10min
48.2
±0.5
50.2
±2.4
45.1
±0.8
both models, we use a linear schedule with peak learning rate of
1e−5 for 200 epochs of which ten are warmup, dropout of 10%,
and effective batch size of 8. For reference, we also train us-
ing the ML-SUPERB recipe [1] from ESPNet [33], which also
fine-tunes the 1-billion parameter MMS model, keeping all hy-
perparameters as-is except to set the effective batch size to 4.
For comparison with ML-SUPERB, we also include results for
the restricted 1hr and 10min training conditions.
The data includes an unlabelled subset. We show two pos-
sible approaches to using it. First, continued pre-training of a
multilingual model using Faetar audio for self-supervised train-
ing prior to fine-tuning. We use the entire unlab set and continue
pre-training of MMS (effective batch size 32; 300000 steps
≈258 epochs, of which the first 30% are warmup in a linear
scheduler; peak learning rate 3×10−4), then fine-tune as before.
As can be seen from Table 3, this leads to a large performance
boost. Alternatively, we attempt self-training, decoding unlab
using the fine-tuned (base) MMS model, then adding the result-
ing decoded speech to a second round of fine-tuning. Finally,
we combine both approaches. Table 3 demonstrates that both of
these approaches improve performance, and that the results are
cumulative, leading to a best PER of 30.5% when combining
both approaches (although the pairwise differences are within
the overlap of the confidence intervals again). In sum, the unla-
belled data set shows potential for improving ASR.
6. Limitations
The major limitation of this benchmark is that the transcrip-
tions themselves are inconsistent. As discussed above, they vary
unpredictably between tracking fine-grained phonetic distinc-
tions and lexical-level (phonemic) distinctions. As is typical of
field data, it was collected over many years, and different files
were transcribed for different purposes. Furthermore, as is often
the case when fine-grained phonetic details are transcribed but
there is no clear consensus about what the phonemic form is,
the transcriptions are inconsistent in another way: specific pho-
netic details may not always be transcribed in exactly the same
way. Genuine errors were corrected in the test set, but these
two kinds of inconsistency remain, even in the test set. These
two sources of noise in the transcription mean that there is an
unknown lower bound (“noise threshold”) on PER.
The fact that we are limited to transcriptions of this kind
is partly a consequence of the fact that Faetar has no standard
orthography and that the linguistic (phonemic) analysis is not
fully understood. The fact that there is no standard orthography
does not detract from the utility of ASR. A major application of
ASR is in indexing audio recordings and in generating textual
resources from them (that may, for example, later be used to
build educational materials), in addition to linguistic research.
Such collections can be built without a standard orthography.
However, for most purposes—even for linguistic phonetic
research—having fine-grained phonetic transcriptions (even
perfectly consistent ones) is insufficient. For most practical pur-
poses, we need a lexical transcription indicating the intended
word, without all pronunciation details—for example, grouping
[tawulin@] and [tawolin:] together. The serious challenge posed
here is that, even armed with an extensive dictionary of Fae-
tar, we would have no way of automatically mapping our sub-
lexical transcriptions to the headwords in the dictionary, and,
more importantly, of knowing whether we have accurately done
so. Furthermore, existing lexica are highly incomplete. Pre-
vious approaches to inconsistent transcriptions in ASR gener-
ally rely on extensive manual labelling or elicitation of alternate
transcriptions of the same utterance [34, 35, 36]. Both would be
prohibitively time- and expert-intensive for us.
We take the future challenge of guessing at an ASR lexicon
or a phonemic-level transcription convention based in a fully
unsupervised manner, with no lexical-level grouping or annota-
tion used in training, to be potentially ground-breaking for low-
resource languages. We do not explore this except to note that
informal experiments with language modelling based on lexica
derived by clustering did not yield improvements to PER.
7. Summary of Contributions
We have presented the Faetar Automatic Speech Recognition
Benchmark, a benchmark corpus aimed at under-resourced lan-
guages with noisy audio and transcriptions. We demonstrate
that out-of-the-box application of state-of-the-art multilingual
foundation models yields an improvement over spectral fea-
tures, and that using unlabelled data yields further improve-
ments. The fact that we obtain improvements on the constrained
ASR task by varying models suggests that there may be further
improvements to be made to the model architectures as well.
Nevertheless, in all cases, the baseline PERs would generally
be unacceptable without manual intervention. We leave addi-
tional approaches for the community to explore, and release the
benchmark with the aim of encouraging careful attention to cor-
pora and languages like Faetar, deepening the field’s commit-
ment to the promise of universal speech technology.
8. Acknowledgments
This work is supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering
Research Council of Canada (NSERC) RGPIN-2022-04431, as
well as the Data Sciences Institute and Jackman Humanities In-
stitute at the University of Toronto. It was also enabled in part
by resources provided by Compute Ontario, Calcul Qu´ebec, and
the Digital Research Alliance of Canada.
4031

9. References
[1] J. Shi, W. Chen, D. Berrebbi, H.-H. Wang, W.-P. Huang, E.-P.
Hu, H.-L. Chuang, X. Chang, Y. Tang, S.-W. Li, A. Mohamed,
H.-Y. Lee, and S. Watanabe, “Findings of the 2023 ML-SUPERB
challenge: Pre-training and evaluation over more languages and
beyond,” in ASRU, 2023, pp. 1–8.
[2] N. Nagy, “Language contact and language change in the Faetar
speech community,” Ph.D. dissertation, University of Pennsylva-
nia, 1996.
[3] ——, Faetar.
Munich: Lincom Europa, 2000.
[4] A. Zulato,
J. Kasstan,
and N. Nagy,
“An overview of
Francoprovenc¸al vitality in Europe and North America,” Interna-
tional Journal of the Sociology of Language, vol. 2018, no. 249,
pp. 11–29, 2017.
[5] K. Peterson, A. Tong, and Y. Yu, “OpenASR21: The second open
challenge for automatic speech recognition of low-resource lan-
guages,” in Proc. Interspeech 2022, 2022, pp. 4895–4899.
[6] B. M. L. Srivastava, S. Sitaram, R. Kumar Mehta, K. Doss Mohan,
P. Matani, S. Satpal, K. Bali, R. Srikanth, and N. Nayak, “Inter-
speech 2018 low resource automatic speech recognition challenge
for Indian languages,” in SLTU, 2018, pp. 11–14.
[7] S. T. Abate, W. Menzel, and B. Tafila, “An Amharic speech cor-
pus for large vocabulary continuous speech recognition,” in Proc.
Interspeech 2005, 2005, pp. 1601–1604.
[8] O. Kjartansson, S. Sarin, K. Pipatsrisawat, M. Jansche, and L. Ha,
“Crowd-sourced speech corpora for Javanese, Sundanese, Sin-
hala, Nepali, and Bangladeshi Bengali,” in SLTU, Gurugram, In-
dia, 2018, pp. 52–55.
[9] R. Ardila, M. Branson, K. Davis, M. Kohler, J. Meyer, M. Hen-
retty, R. Morais, L. Saunders, F. Tyers, and G. Weber, “Common
Voice: A massively-multilingual speech corpus,” in LREC.
Mar-
seille, France: European Language Resources Association, May
2020, pp. 4218–4222.
[10] Y. Khassanov, S. Mussakhojayeva, A. Mirzakhmetov, A. Adiyev,
M. Nurpeiissov, and H. A. Varol, “A crowdsourced open-source
Kazakh speech corpus and initial speech recognition baseline,” in
EACL, P. Merlo, J. Tiedemann, and R. Tsarfaty, Eds.
Online:
Association for Computational Linguistics, 2021, pp. 697–706.
[11] A. W. Black, “CMU Wilderness multilingual speech dataset,” in
ICASSP, 2019, pp. 5971–5975.
[12] V. Pratap, Q. Xu, A. Sriram, G. Synnaeve, and R. Collobert,
“MLS: A large-scale multilingual dataset for speech research,” in
Proc. Interspeech 2020, 2020, pp. 2757–2761.
[13] J. D. Amith and R. C. Garc´ıa, “Audio corpus of Yolox´ochitl Mix-
tec with accompanying time-coded transcriptons in ELAN.”
[14] J. D. Amith and O. L´opez-Francisco, “Audio corpus of Totonac
recordings from Northern Puebla and adjacent areas of Veracruz.”
[Online]. Available: https://www.openslr.org/107/
[15] D. Berrebbi, J. Shi, B. Yan, O. L´opez-Francisco, J. Amith, and
S. Watanabe, “Combining spectral and self-supervised features
for low resource speech recognition and translation,” in Proc. In-
terspeech 2022, 2022, pp. 3533–3537.
[16] I. Chizzoni and A. Vietti, “Towards an ASR System for Docu-
menting Endangered Languages: A Preliminary Study on Sar-
dinian,” in CLiC-it 2024: Tenth Italian Conference on Computa-
tional Linguistics, F. Dell’Orletta, A. Lenci, S. Montemagni, and
R. Sprugnoli, Eds., 2024.
[17] C. Tsoukala, K. Kritsis, I. Douros, A. Katsamanis, N. Kokkas,
V.
Arampatzakis,
V.
Sevetlidis,
S.
Markantonatou,
and
G. Pavlidis, “ASR pipeline for low-resourced languages:
A
case study on Pomak,” in Proceedings of the Second Workshop
on NLP Applications to Field Linguistics, 2023, pp. 40–45.
[18] T. Javed, K. Bhogale, A. Raman, P. Kumar, A. Kunchukuttan,
and M. M. Khapra, “IndicSUPERB: A speech processing univer-
sal performance benchmark for Indian languages,” AAAI, vol. 37,
no. 11, pp. 12 942–12 950, 2023.
[19] C. Wang, M. Riviere, A. Lee, A. Wu, C. Talnikar, D. Haz-
iza, M. Williamson, J. Pino, and E. Dupoux, “VoxPopuli: A
large-scale multilingual speech corpus for representation learning,
semi-supervised learning and interpretation,” in ACL-IJCNLP,
C. Zong, F. Xia, W. Li, and R. Navigli, Eds.
Online: Associ-
ation for Computational Linguistics, 2021, pp. 993–1003.
[20] A. Conneau, M. Ma, S. Khanuja, Y. Zhang, V. Axelrod, S. Dalmia,
J. Riesa, C. Rivera, and A. Bapna, “FLEURS: Few-shot learning
evaluation of universal representations of speech,” in SLT, 2023,
pp. 798–805.
[21] Y. Zhang, W. Han, J. Qin, Y. Wang, A. Bapna, Z. Chen, N. Chen,
B. Li, V. Axelrod, G. Wang, Z. Meng, K. Hu, A. Rosenberg,
R. Prabhavalkar, D. S. Park, P. Haghani, J. Riesa, G. Perng,
H. Soltau, T. Strohman, B. Ramabhadran, T. Sainath, P. Moreno,
C.-C. Chiu, J. Schalkwyk, F. Beaufays, and Y. Wu, “Google USM:
Scaling automatic speech recognition beyond 100 languages,”
2023.
[22] E. Morris, R. Jimerson, and E. Prud’hommeaux, “One size does
not fit all in resource-constrained ASR,” in Proc. Interspeech
2021, 2021, pp. 4354–4358.
[23] N. Nagy, “Lexical change and language contact: Faetar in Italy
and Canada,” Journal of Sociolinguistics, vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 366–
382, 2011.
[24] ——, “A multilingual corpus to explore variation in language con-
tact situations,” Rassegna Italiana di linguistica applicata, pp.
65–84, 2011.
[25] H. Brugman and A. Russel, “Annotating multi-media/multi-modal
resources with ELAN,” in LREC, M. T. Lino, M. F. Xavier, F. Fer-
reira, R. Costa, and R. Silva, Eds.
Lisbon, Portugal: European
Language Resources Association (ELRA), 2004.
[26] V. Manohar, D. Povey, and S. Khudanpur, “JHU Kaldi system for
Arabic MGB-3 ASR challenge using diarization, audio-transcript
alignment and transfer learning,” in ASRU, 2017, pp. 346–352.
[27] D. Povey, A. Ghoshal, G. Boulianne, L. Burget, O. Glembek,
N. Goel, M. Hannemann, P. Motlicek, Y. Qian, P. Schwarz,
J. Silovsky, G. Stemmer, and K. Vesely, “The Kaldi speech recog-
nition toolkit,” in ASRU.
Hilton Waikoloa Village, Big Island,
Hawaii, US: IEEE Signal Processing Society, 2011.
[28] A. Plaquet and H. Bredin, “Powerset multi-class cross entropy
loss for neural speaker diarization,” in Proc. INTERSPEECH
2023, 2023.
[29] H. Bredin, “pyannote.audio 2.1 speaker diarization pipeline: prin-
ciple, benchmark, and recipe,” in Proc. INTERSPEECH 2023,
2023.
[30] S. F. Chen, D. Beeferman, and R. Rosenfeld, “Evaluation metrics
for language models,” Jan. 2008.
[31] V. Pratap, A. Tjandra, B. Shi, P. Tomasello, A. Babu, S. Kundu,
A. Elkahky, Z. Ni, A. Vyas, M. Fazel-Zarandi, A. Baevski, Y. Adi,
X. Zhang, W.-N. Hsu, A. Conneau, and M. Auli, “Scaling speech
technology to 1,000+ languages,” 2023.
[32] M. Z. Boito, V. Iyer, N. Lagos, L. Besacier, and I. Calapode-
scu, “mhubert-147: A compact multilingual hubert model,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2406.06371, 2024.
[33] S. Watanabe, T. Hori, S. Karita, T. Hayashi, J. Nishitoba, Y. Unno,
N. Enrique Yalta Soplin, J. Heymann, M. Wiesner, N. Chen,
A. Renduchintala, and T. Ochiai, “ESPnet: End-to-end speech
processing toolkit,” in Proc. Interspeech 2018, 2018, pp. 2207–
2211.
[34] A. Ali, W. Magdy, P. Bell, and S. Renais, “Multi-reference WER
for evaluating ASR for languages with no orthographic rules,” in
2015 IEEE Workshop on Automatic Speech Recognition and Un-
derstanding (ASRU).
IEEE, 2015, pp. 576–580.
[35] I. Nigmatulina, T. Kew, and T. Samardzic, “Asr for non-
standardised languages with dialectal variation: the case of swiss
german,” in Proceedings of the 7th Workshop on NLP for Similar
Languages, Varieties and Dialects, 2020, pp. 15–24.
[36] U. Barends, “Automatic orthography standardisation for under-
resourced languages,” Master’s thesis, Stellenbosch University,
2024.
4032

