warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Processing of grammatical information in cochlear implant simulated speech by 
German adult listeners 
Atty Schouwenaars1, Esther Ruigendijk2 
1Center for Language and Cognition, University of Groningen, The Netherlands 
2 Department of Modern Languages, CvO University of Oldenburg, Germany 
a.schouwenaars@rug.nl 
 
Abstract 
This study investigates how German which-questions are 
processed in cochlear implant (CI) simulated speech compared 
to normal speech. In addition, it explores the role of working 
memory capacity (WM). Using eye-tracking, accuracy and gaze 
patterns for subject, object and passive questions were studied. 
Questions were disambiguated with grammatical information, 
specifically morphosyntactic cues: case and/or subject-verb 
agreement. Results show that only object question accuracy was 
affected by CI simulations. Similarly, eye movements showed 
weaker interpretation preferences for object questions in CI 
simulations. Participants with high WM had higher accuracy 
and their eye gaze showed quicker revisions of garden path 
effects compared to those with medium or low WM capacity. 
These findings show that morphosyntactic cues support correct 
interpretation of object questions in CI simulations, but 
processing these questions is slower and influenced by working 
memory capacity. 
Index terms: Sentence comprehension, cochlear implant 
simulated speech, working memory 
1. Introduction 
1.1. Morphosyntactic cues 
Language contains morphosyntactic cues, like case and subject-
verb agreement, that indicate grammatical dependencies within 
sentences and are thus relevant for interpretation. Some of these 
cues are not very salient and might easily be missed, especially 
in adverse listening conditions, like hearing with a cochlear 
implant. Schouwenaars et al. [1] found that German children 
with cochlear implants relied less on these cues in sentence 
processing, possibly due to reduced speech exposure or the 
quality of cochlear implant speech. The goal of the current 
study is to investigate this last explanation, i.e., CI signal 
quality. We use cochlear implant simulated speech to 
understand an effect on language processing in children with a 
CI. Furthermore, the role of working memory capacity is 
investigated as it affects sentence processing, with deviations 
observed in cochlear implant users. 
We examined the interpretation of wh-questions, that enable us 
to examine different morphosyntactic cues, namely case and 
subject-verb agreement. In German, the constituent structure of 
object questions (NP-V-NP) look identical to those of subject 
questions (NP-V-NP), making them structurally ambiguous and 
difficult to understand for the listener. Nevertheless, 
morphosyntactic cues can serve to distinguish between subject 
and object questions, aiding in accurate interpretation. 
Nominative and accusative case marking identify subjects and 
objects, illustrated in the subject question (1) and object 
questions (2) in Table 1. The forms welcher and der of singular 
masculine nouns in German indicate subjects, whereas welchen 
and den indicate objects. Note that feminine and plural nouns 
do not distinguish subjects and objects, instead subject-verb 
agreement may also disambiguate as in (3). In subject question 
(3), agreement in number between the first NP and the verb 
indicates a subject question. In object questions (4), agreement 
between the second NP and the verb, rather than the first, 
indicates an object question. A combination of cues, like in (5) 
and (6), is also possible.  
Table 1: Examples of subject and object wh-questions 
disambiguated by case (nom = nominative; acc = accusative; 
amb = ambiguous case) or subject-verb agreement (sg = 
singular; pl = plural).  
 
Subject question: Case 
1) 
Welcher 
Panda 
wäscht 
den 
Tiger? 
 
Which 
Panda 
wash 
the 
Tiger? 
 
nom 
sg 
sg 
acc 
sg 
 
‘Which Panda is washing the Tiger?’ 
 
Object question: Case 
2) 
Welchen 
Panda 
wäscht 
der 
Tiger? 
 
Which 
Panda 
wash 
the 
Tiger? 
 
acc 
sg 
sg 
nom 
sg 
 
‘Which Panda is the Tiger washing?’ 
 
Subject question: Agreement 
3) 
Welche 
Katze 
wäscht 
die 
Schildkröten? 
 
Which 
cat 
wash 
the 
turtles? 
 
amb 
sg 
sg 
amb 
pl 
 
Object question: Agreement 
4) 
Welche 
Katze 
waschen 
die 
Schildkröten? 
 
Which 
cat 
wash 
the 
turtles? 
 
amb 
sg 
pl 
amb 
pl 
 
Subject question: Agreement and Case 
5) 
Welche 
Frösche 
waschen 
den 
Vogel? 
 
Which 
frogs 
wash 
the 
bird? 
 
amb 
pl 
pl 
acc 
sg 
 
Object question: Agreement and Case 
6) 
Welche 
Katze 
wäscht 
der 
Vogel? 
 
Which 
Panda 
wash 
the 
bird? 
 
amb 
pl 
sg 
nom 
sg 
 
Even though word order cannot be used to distinguish between 
subject and object questions in German and other languages like 
Dutch and Italian, it still plays a role in sentence interpretation. 
More specifically, we tend to interpret the first part of the 
sentence as the subject, or performer of the action. When the 
assumed subject does not agree with the verb, listeners are 
misled (garden path) and must revise their interpretation. This 
occurs 
in 
object 
questions, 
explaining 
subject-object 
asymmetries in acquisition and processing. More specifically, 
subject-first sentences are acquired earlier and processed 
quicker compared to object-first sentences.  
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
3788
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2369

Revising garden paths seems linked to WM [2], and thus the 
ability to temporarily store and process information. It has been 
argued that people with larger WM keep more interpretations 
active, whereas people with smaller capacities only the more 
likely interpretation [3]. Others argue that people with smaller 
WM have problems to suppress dispreferred representations as 
effectively as people with larger WM [4]. 
1.2. Cochlear implant simulated speech 
In normal hearing, thousands of hair cells capture a wide range 
of sounds and transmit signals to the auditory nerve. In contrast, 
cochlear implant users rely on a maximum of 22 electrodes to 
stimulate the auditory nerve [5], significantly limiting sound 
resolution [6]. Additionally, cochlear implant users experience 
a significantly reduced dynamic range – the difference between 
barely audible and maximum comfortable sound levels – 
typically around 10-20 dB compared to approximately 100 dB 
in normal hearing [5]. As a result, their language input is less 
rich than that of normal-hearing listeners. To investigate the 
effects of this degraded speech input, this study uses noise-
vocoded speech to simulate cochlear implant processing in 
normal-hearing participants.  
1.3. Current study 
We predict that participants with CI simulations will perform 
worse on object questions than those with normal speech, while 
performance on subject and passive questions will remain 
unaffected. As described above, correct interpretation of object 
questions requires the use of morphosyntactic cues, which may 
be hard to perceive in sentences in CI simulated speech. In 
contrast, subject questions can be accurately interpreted just on 
a subject-first preference (see Table 1). Likewise, passive 
questions depend on more and perceptually salient cues, such 
as passive verb morphology for correct interpretation (e.g., 
Welcher Tiger wird von dem Panda gewaschen? Which tiger is 
being washed by the panda?). Additionally, we predict that 
working memory capacity influences the processing of object 
questions. 
2. Method  
2.1. Participants 
Two groups of thirty German-speaking young adults between 
19 and 30 years old without hearing loss participated in this 
study. The test group (19 female, mean age: 24) received the 
stimuli in cochlear implant simulated speech (CISS) and the 
control group (16 female, mean age: 24) received the stimuli in 
normal speech (NS). Before starting the experiment, hearing 
was examined with a pure tone audiogram. Participants gave 
written consent prior to participating and the study was 
approved by the Ethical Committee of University of Oldenburg 
and in accordance with the declaration of Helsinki.  
Four participants, all from the test group, did not pass the 
screening tests and were excluded for further analysis. 
Therefore, the final test group consisted of 26 participants (16 
female, mean age: 25).  
2.2. Design and materials 
Two screening tests, a digit span task and a which-questions 
comprehension test were administered.  
 
2.2.1. Screening tests 
The screening tests consisted of an auditory discrimination task 
testing case marking differences and a picture-selection task 
testing the comprehension of subject-verb agreement in 
canonical declarative sentences. Both screening tests consisted 
of 16 items and participants passed this test when they scored 
correctly on 14 or more items. As can be seen in examples (1-
4), morphosyntactic cues are not very salient. For this reason, 
screening tests were conducted to be certain that the participants 
could distinguish between nominative and accusative case and 
that they did use verbal inflection to identify the number of the 
subject in canonical declarative sentences.  
2.2.2. Digit span task 
A digit span task was administered to test participants working 
memory. The experimenter would read out loud a sequence of 
digits ranging from 1 to 9. In the first condition, forward, 
participants recalled this sequence in the same order. In the 
second condition, backward, they recalled it in the reversed 
order. The number of digits in the longest sequence recalled 
correctly in the reversed order, the backward span, was used as 
a measure of working memory as in addition to temporary 
storage, it also involves manipulation of information [7].  
2.2.3. Which-questions comprehension test 
The which-questions comprehension test was a picture 
selection task with eye-tracking, including subject, object and 
passive questions. Subject and object questions were 
disambiguated either by only case on both NPs (Case), by only 
subject-verb agreement (Agr) or by both subject-verb 
agreement and case on the second NP (AgrCa). These 
conditions were created considering gender and number of 
nouns. In particular, German singular masculine nouns (but not 
feminine nouns) distinguish between nominative (der) and 
accusative (den) case. Alternating the number between the two 
NPs allowed subject-verb agreement to serve as a cue. 
Regarding the timing of the disambiguation, the Case condition 
provides an early cue at the wh-word, whereas in Agr and 
AgrCa conditions, disambiguation occurs later at the verb. 
Passive questions contained the same nouns but were always 
disambiguated by passive morphology (the verb werden, the 
past participle, and the by-agent). Passives were included as a 
comparative condition. As in object questions, the patient 
proceeds the agent. But, unlike in active object questions, in 
passive questions the agent is expressed as the subject.  
Four lists varied in item order and target position, each 
containing 54 test items: 18 per question type and six per cue 
condition. Six transitive verbs were used, with distinct singular 
and plural forms (e.g., fängt-fangen ‘catches-catch’). Fifteen 
noun pairs were selected based on a questionnaire study to 
ensure plausibility and to control for the influence of semantic 
properties on thematic role assignment (i.e., a donkey washing 
a panda was evaluated as plausible as the reverse). Sentences 
were prerecorded by a female native speaker of German.  
In each trial, two pictures, depicting two reversed 
interpretations were displayed next to each other. To illustrate, 
in Figure 1, the left picture represents the correct object-first 
interpretation of sentence (2) and the right picture the incorrect 
subject-first interpretation.  
3789

 
Figure 1: An example of a picture pair, with one illustrating 
the object-first interpretation (left) and the other depicting the 
subject-first interpretation (right) of sentence (2): Welchen 
Panda wäscht der Tiger? ‘Which panda is the tiger washing?’. 
The test items were divided into two blocks of 27 test items, 
each preceded by two practice items and including seven fillers. 
Participants were seated in front of a Tobii TX300 eye tracker, 
connected to two computers. One ran the experiment using E-
Prime 2.0 (Psychological Software Tools, Inc.) and collected 
behavioral data, while the second recorded gaze data at a 
sample rate of 300 Hz using TET-calls in E-Prime.  
2.2.4. Cochlear implant simulated speech 
For the simulation, the sentences were processed through a 
software-implemented vocoder (adapted from [8]; for technical 
details see [9,10]). This vocoder simulates the signal processing 
mechanisms and the physiology of cochlear implants users. It 
was configured to simulate an implant of the brand Cochlear 
Ltd. with a Contour Advance electrode array featuring 22 
electrodes and included both a CI simulation and an auralization 
component, and accounted for channel interaction. 
2.3. Procedure 
Firstly, a pure tone audiogram was administered and the digit 
span test was performed. After that, the participants of the test 
group had a small familiarization session of the CI simulations, 
in which they heard a two-minute fairytale twice and 
additionally 8 sentences comparable to the actual test sentences. 
Then, the first half of the which-questions test was conducted, 
followed by the agreement-screening test. After which, the 
second half of which-questions test was conducted, followed by 
the case screening test. All speech content was transmitted 
through Sennheiser HD650 headphones. Altogether, the 
procedure lasted approximately one hour.  
2.4. Statistical analysis 
Generalized linear mixed-effects regression models (GLMER) 
with the software R (version 3.1.2) were used to analyse the 
accuracy data. For variables with more than two values, 
multiple comparisons were made using the ‘multcomp’ package 
[11]. 
The first analyses compared the two groups (CISS vs. NS) to 
examine the effect of CI simulations on which-question 
comprehension. Accuracy was the dependent variable, with 
Participant and Item as random intercepts. Random slopes were 
evaluated but did not improve the model. Sequentially, fixed 
factors (Group, Question Type, Cue Type) were added to assess 
model fit using Akaike-Information-Criterion [12]. Cue Type 
did not significantly improve the model, nor were any 
interactions found with Group or Question Type. Additionally, 
potential effects of material-related variables (Verb, Noun Pair, 
Version, Direction of Action and Position of Target) were 
examined but did not significantly improve the model.  
The second GLMER model focused on object questions in CI 
simulations, investigating potential effects like WM. Accuracy 
on object questions was the dependent variable, with Item the 
only random factor, as there was one digit span score per 
participant. Trial number and digit span were included as fixed 
factors.  
Generalized Additive Mixed Modeling (GAMM) [13], was 
used to analyze gaze data with mgcv 1.8.4 [13] and itsadug [14] 
packages. TCDiff (difference between looks towards the target 
and competitor) for 200 ms timebins was the dependent 
variable. Interactions between Group (SCIS vs. NS) and Type 
of Question (subject vs. object vs. passive) were combined into 
a single predictor to enable assessing group differences across 
question types. Participant and Type of Question were merged 
into a random effect factor (ParticipantQuestion). Difference 
plots and the get_differences function were applied to calculate 
differences between conditions. 
3. Results  
3.1. Overall accuracy 
Figure 2 displays the percentage of correct interpretations of the 
different type of which questions in CISS and NS. 
 
Figure 2: Percentages of correct interpretations of subject 
questions, object questions and passive questions. 
In the final model an interaction between Group and Type of 
Question revealed that participants with CI simulated speech 
performed worse than those with normal speech on object 
questions (β = -2.08, z=-4.34, p < .001), but not on subject and 
passive questions. Furthermore, accuracy on object questions 
was significantly lower than on subject (β = -3.62, z=-5.55, p < 
.001) and passive questions (β = 4.15, z=-5.48, p < .001) for 
CISS participants, with no difference between subject and 
passive questions. Finally, no significant differences in 
accuracy were found for NS. 
3.2. Accuracy on object questions and working memory 
For the analysis of accuracy scores on object questions by 
participants presented with CISS, both trial number and 
backward digit span were significant predictors, and an 
interaction between these two variables was detected. There 
were more incorrect responses in the early trials compared to 
later ones (β = 0.46, z=-3.50, p < .001). There was also an effect 
of digit span: higher digit span scores were associated with 
higher accuracy scores on object questions (β = 0.68, z=3.15, p 
< .01). Because trial number influenced accuracy, the digit span 
only affected earlier trials, not the later ones, explaining the 
interaction. 
3790

3.3. Eye movements 
Whereas accuracy reveals final interpretations, eye-tracking 
provides insight into interpretation preferences during sentence 
processing. Figure 3 shows gaze patterns for both groups for 
subject, object and passive questions. 
 
 
Figure 3: Online gaze behavior of the CISS (solid) and NS 
(dashed) groups for subject, object and passive questions. Red 
and blue lines show gazes to the target and competitor picture, 
respectively. Horizontal grey lines indicate significant group 
difference (CISS vs. NS) based on the statistical model. 
For subject questions, both groups increasingly look towards 
the target picture, with no significant differences between them. 
In object questions, the NS group initially looks more at the 
competitor picture, whereas the CISS group does not, 
illustrating weaker preferences for this group. For passive 
questions, both groups first look at the incorrect interpretation, 
but the CISS group take longer to revise their interpretation.   
Summarizing, CI simulated speech appears to affect the online 
processing of object questions by resulting in less clear 
interpretation preferences during the processing of object 
questions. It also leads to longer revision periods for incorrect 
initial interpretations in passive questions.  
Working memory affected object question accuracy. Here, we 
examine its impact on online processing, focusing on object 
questions. Whereas no clear interpretation preferences emerged 
for the CISS group when looking at the object questions as a 
whole, a closer examination reveals initial incorrect 
interpretation preferences in cases where disambiguation 
occurred later in the sentence at the verb, i.e. the conditions 
where verb agreement provides a cue (Agr and AgrCa). 
Questions disambiguated by case were excluded, as they 
disambiguate right from the start.   
 
Figure 4: Online gaze behavior for object questions in the Agr 
and AgrCa conditions in CISS, showing looks towards the 
target (red) and competitor (blue) pictures across Digit Span 
Groups: low (dotted), medium (dashed), and high (solid).  
Figure 4 shows the gaze patterns of temporarily ambiguous 
object questions (Agr and AgrCa) across digit span groups. 
Regardless of whether participants had low (span: 3-4), medium 
(span:5) or high (span: 6-7) span scores, all show an initial 
preference for the subject-first interpretation. Notably, 
participants in the high span group display this preference 
earlier, switch interpretations sooner, and have more looks to 
the target picture at the end compared to participants in the 
medium or low span groups.  
4. Discussion 
The current study found that CI simulated speech affects the 
interpretation of object questions, but not subject or passive 
questions, as predicted. In subject questions, using a subject-
first preference leads to the correct interpretation. For passive 
questions, passive morphology guides interpretation. Object 
questions require morphosyntactic cues, such as case marking 
and subject-verb agreement, which are challenging to perceive 
in CI simulated speech, as discussed below.   
One object question item, Welchen Maler fängt der Cowboy?, 
was particularly difficult in CI simulated speech, but not in 
normal speech. The accusative case marking, ending in a nasal 
n followed by a noun starting with a nasal m, may have been 
unclear, leading some participants to mistake it for nominative 
case due to phonological assimilation. The remaining case cue,  
der in the second NP, might not have been perceived strongly 
enough or considered a strong enough cue for a revision of the 
subject-first interpretation. This highlights how spectral 
degradation in CI simulated speech can hinder interpretation.  
Trial number significantly predicted object question accuracy, 
with more object questions misinterpreted as subject questions 
in earlier trials, compared to later trials. This again highlights 
the vulnerability of morphosyntactic cues in CI simulated 
speech. Subject and passive questions were understood 
correctly from the start of the experiment, suggesting that noun 
phrases and voice were more easily perceived. The higher error 
rate in object questions at the beginning of the experiment were 
therefore not solely due to participants adjusting to CI simulated 
speech. Instead, it seems as if participants needed time to adjust 
to object-first structures and rely more on morphosyntactic cues 
than on word order preferences.  
Overall, participants in the CISS group with higher working 
memory capacities performed better on early object-question 
trials compared to those with lower working memory 
capacities. Regarding the debate on WM and the number of 
active representations during processing [4], our gaze data 
shows that all WM groups favor one most likely interpretation. 
Regardless of low, medium or high working memory 
capacities, participants’ gaze patterns indicate a preference for 
the subject-first interpretation in temporarily ambiguous object 
questions. Additionally, adults with high WM revise the 
subject-first interpretation earlier and more confidently 
compared to adults with medium or low WM, as reflected in 
their quicker and more frequent gazes toward the target. 
Similar to temporarily ambiguous object questions, passive 
questions are initially interpreted as subject questions. In CI 
simulated speech, revising this incorrect interpretation takes 
longer compared to normal speech. This emphasizes the 
additional processing time required to revise incorrect 
interpretations in degraded speech processing.  
To conclude, the processing of morphosyntactic cues in wh-
questions is affected by CI simulated speech. Therefore, 
degraded speech input might partly explain comprehension 
difficulties in children with CIs. Future research could explore 
CI simulated speech in normal-hearing language-learning 
children.  
3791

5. References 
[1] A. Schouwenaars, M. Finke, P. Hendriks, and E. Ruigendijk, 
“Which questions do children with cochlear implants understand? 
An Eye-Tracking study,” Journal of Speech Language and 
Hearing Research, vol. 62, no. 2, pp. 387–409, Feb. 2019, 
doi: 10.1044/2018_jslhr-h-17-0310. 
[2] A. Schouwenaars, P. Hendriks, and E. Ruigendijk, “German 
children’s processing of morphosyntactic cues in wh-
questions,” Applied Psycholinguistics, vol. 39, no. 6, pp. 1279–
1318, Oct. 2018, doi: 10.1017/s0142716418000334. 
[3] M. C. MacDonald, M. A. Just, and P. A. Carpenter, “Working 
memory 
constraints 
on 
the 
processing 
of 
syntactic 
ambiguity,” Cognitive Psychology, vol. 24, no. 1, pp. 56–98, Jan. 
1992, doi: 10.1016/0010-0285(92)90003-k 
[4] A. D. Friederici, K. Steinhauer, A. Mecklinger, and M. Meyer, 
“Working memory constraints on syntactic ambiguity resolution 
as revealed by electrical brain responses,” Biological Psychology, 
vol. 47, no. 3, pp. 193–221, Mar. 1998, doi: 10.1016/s0301-
0511(97)00033-1. 
[5] F. G. Zeng, “Trends in cochlear implants,” Trends in 
Amplification, vol. 
8, 
no. 1, pp. 
1–34, 
Dec. 
2004, 
doi: 10.1177/108471380400800102. 
[6]  P. C. Loizou, “Speech processing in Vocoder-Centric cochlear 
implants,” Advances in Oto-rhino-laryngology, pp. 109–143, Jan. 
2006, doi: 10.1159/000094648. 
[7] A. 
Baddeley, 
“Working 
memory 
and 
language: 
an 
overview,” Journal of Communication Disorders, vol. 36, no. 3, 
pp. 189–208, May 2003, doi: 10.1016/s0021-9924(03)00019-4. 
[8] T. Bräcker, V. Hohmann, B.  Kollmeier, and M. Schulte, 
“Simulation und Vergleich von Sprachkodierungsstrategien in 
Cochlea-Implantaten [Simulation and comparison of speech 
coding strategies in cochlear implants],” Zeitschrift der 
Audiologie /Audiological Acoustics, vol. 48 no. 4, pp. 158–169, 
Jan 2009. 
[9] F. Langner and T. Jürgens, “Forward-Masked frequency 
selectivity improvements in simulated and actual cochlear implant 
users using a preprocessing algorithm,” Trends in Hearing, vol. 
20, 
p. 
233121651665963, 
Jan. 
2016, 
doi: 10.1177/2331216516659632. 
[10] B. Williges, M. Dietz, V. Hohmann, and T. Jürgens, “Spatial 
release from masking in simulated cochlear implant users with 
and without access to Low-Frequency acoustic Hearing,” Trends 
in Hearing, vol. 19, Dec. 2015, doi: 10.1177/2331216515616940. 
[11] T. Hothorn, F. Bretz, and P. Westfall, “Simultaneous inference in 
general parametric models,” Biometrical Journal, vol. 50, no. 3, 
pp. 346–363, May 2008, doi: 10.1002/bimj.200810425. 
[12] H. Akaike, "A new look at the statistical model identification," 
in IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol. 19, no. 6, pp. 
716-723, December 1974, doi: 10.1109/TAC.1974.1100705. 
[13] S. 
N. 
Wood, Generalized 
additive 
models. 
2017. 
doi: 10.1201/9781315370279. 
[14] J. van Rij, M. Wieling, R. H. Baayen, and H. van Rijn, “itsadug: 
Interpreting Time Series and Autocorrelated Data Using 
GAMMs,” 2020. 
  
3792

