On the reliability of feature attribution methods for speech classification
Gaofei Shen1, Hosein Mohebbi1, Arianna Bisazza2, Afra Alishahi1, Grzegorz Chrupała1
1Tilburg University, The Netherlands
2University of Groningen, The Netherlands
{g.shen, h.mohebbi, a.alishahi}@tilburguniversity.edu,
a.bisazza@rug.nl, grzegorz@chrupala.me
Abstract
As the capabilities of large-scale pre-trained models evolve, un-
derstanding the determinants of their outputs becomes more im-
portant. Feature attribution aims to reveal which parts of the
input elements contribute the most to model outputs. In speech
processing, the unique characteristics of the input signal make
the application of feature attribution methods challenging. We
study how factors such as input type and aggregation and per-
turbation timespan impact the reliability of standard feature at-
tribution methods, and how these factors interact with charac-
teristics of each classification task. We find that standard ap-
proaches to feature attribution are generally unreliable when ap-
plied to the speech domain, with the exception of word-aligned
perturbation methods when applied to word-based classification
tasks.1
Index Terms: speech processing, interpretability, feature attri-
bution
1. Introduction
Large-scale self-supervised models such as wav2vec2 [1] and
HuBERT [2] have shown impressive performance on various
downstream speech processing tasks from automatic speech
recognition to audio classification. As transformer models [3]
have been increasingly adopted in speech processing, inter-
pretability research for these models has also intensified.
An important research domain within interpretability
is feature attribution which aims to quantify the contribution
of different parts of the model input to its output. A variety of
approaches to feature attribution been studied extensively for
the domains of computer vision (CV) and natural language pro-
cessing (NLP) models. A more limited body of work also exists
for the domain of spoken language [4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11].
A key challenge in research on feature attribution is the
evaluation of the methods. Following the long-standing prac-
tice in research methods and psychometrics, we can distinguish
two key concepts used to quantify the quality of a measurement
method: reliability and validity. Validity refers to how well the
method measures the quantity of interest. For feature attribu-
tion it largely overlaps with the concept of faithfulness: does
the attribution highlight the features that in reality are the most
important determinant features of the model’s output? On the
other hand, reliability focuses on the consistency of a measure-
ment, and answers the question: does the measurement give
the same answer when repeated under similar conditions? For a
measurement to be useful, it needs to score well on both of these
dimensions. In this work we focus on evaluating the reliabil-
ity of commonly used feature attribution methods as applied to
1Code: https://github.com/techsword/reliability-speech-feat-attr
speech models. This aspect of evaluation is often neglected in
prior research, but it is crucial to ensure that the whole endeavor
of attributing model outputs to inputs rests on a solid founda-
tion. Only when methods are shown to be reliable can we then
focus on the question of their validity.
We believe this foundational work is especially needed
in the speech domain.
In contrast to the relatively intuitive
saliency maps for CV or token-based attribution scores for NLP,
the continuous and high resolution nature of the speech signal
means that naive application of basic attribution methods leads
to noisy and hard-to-interpret results. The choice of feature at-
tribution methods for a particular task matters, as does the con-
ditions under which the method is applied. In this paper, we
focus on four attribution methods, and investigate two main as-
pects that might affect their reliability: the input type used for
the feature attribution analysis, and the choice of the attribu-
tion granularity, or the timespan of aggregation or perturbation
of input of a given attribution method.
Input type.
Convolutional neural network (CNN) speech
classification models can use either spectrograms and wave-
forms as input [5].
Meanwhile self-supervised transformer-
based models like wav2vec2 [1] and HuBERT [2] operate in
an end-to-end fashion and use waveform as input with a CNN
block serving as the feature extractor. More traditional audio
features such as log-Mel spectrogram are still being used by
the popular Whisper model [12]. It is important to note that
a spectrogram (time-frequency representation), and raw wave-
form are two different feature representations of the same in-
put signal. We can convert a spectrogram to a waveform and
vice versa. Thus to a large extent we can decouple input type
from the specific target model. A more model-specific option
is to attribute to the output of the CNN feature extractor block
of models like wav2vec2 and HuBERT. Following the common
practice in NLP, we call the output of the CNN feature extractor
the CNN embedding. We can think of the CNN embedding as
an even higher-level representation of the input signal than the
typical time-frequency representation. Thus, for the most com-
mon models of interest we need to decide which input type is
the most appropriate to use for feature attribution.
Attribution granularity.
While both gradient-based and
perturbation-based methods have been tested on speech mod-
els, the interpretation of the attribution results differs. Gradient-
based methods assign a score to every input value. The standard
16kHz sampling rate for wav2vec2 models means there are tens
of thousands of attribution values for mere seconds of speech.
These scores can then be aggregated over longer time-spans
for ease of interpretation, but that happens as a post-processing
step. Perturbation-based methods, on the other hand, can be ap-
plied in a top-down manner by directly perturbing larger chunks
of the input signal and observing the change in the model’s out-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
266
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1911

put. Thus, the choice of attribution method is coupled with the
timespan of aggregation or perturbation.
In this work we investigate four feature attribution meth-
ods and quantify the impact of the choices regarding input type
and granularity on their reliability. We apply these methods
to speech classification models trained on three different tasks
(one of which comprises three related subtasks). In order to
quantify reliability, we use feature attribution agreement be-
tween pairs of separate training runs trained on the same data
and applied to the same test input: we name this reliability score
inter-(random)-seed-agreement (ISA). Our experiments show
that even though the target classifier models learn the tasks and
agree on the vast majority of the inputs, the attribution agree-
ment is generally quite low, and that acceptable levels of relia-
bility are only reached in very few specific conditions. Our find-
ings highlight the inadequacy of standard approaches to feature
attribution as applied to the speech domain, and underline the
need for the development and careful evaluation of appropriate
speech-specific attribution methods.
2. Related Work
Feature attribution has evolved along with advances in machine
learning, with methods originally developed to visualize salient
features in computer vision [13, 14], and adapted further for
natural language processing [15, 16, 17]. Unlike in speech pro-
cessing, the limitations of feature attribution methods have been
carefully studied in vision and language models from both re-
liability and validity perspectives [18, 19, 20, 21, 22]. For ex-
ample, gradient-based methods were demonstrated to be inde-
pendent of parameters of later layers [21], while [22] argues
that complete and linear attribution methods (such as Integrated
Gradients) may perform no better than random guessing when
identifying how models depend on features.
By computing
rank correlation, [20, 19] show that feature attribution methods
(even those within the same family) often disagree in the ex-
planation scores they produce. Unlike these approaches, we do
not consider agreement between different attribution methods,
but rather focus on the core issue of the reliability of a single
method under repeated measurement: the consistency of a sin-
gle attribution method applied to several randomly initialized
fine-tuning runs of the same model architecture. Regarding the
effect of different configuration details (e.g., aggregation level),
our work is related to [23, 24] for textual data.
Applications and adaptations of attribution methods in the
speech domain has been explored primarily with convolutional
neural network (CNN) based models [4, 5, 25], given their ar-
chitectural similarities with computer vision models. For ex-
ample, [5] used Layerwise Relevance Propagation (LRP) to ex-
plain a CNN model trained on either waveform or spectrogram
representations of audio signals. In contrast to their approach,
where models trained on two different types of input data are
compared, we examine the effect of different input types within
a single model.
For speech classification, several studies have started to ex-
amine the validity of feature attribution methods. For exam-
ple, [7] applied LIME [26] to a phoneme recognition task us-
ing the TIMIT [27] dataset, which provides manual labeling
and segmentation at the phoneme level. They found that re-
stricting input audio perturbations to a limited window around
the phoneme of interest can improve the validity of LIME.
Similarly, [8, 11] showed that discretizing attribution scores
through phoneme- and word-level boundaries leads to more in-
terpretable explanations for classification tasks. Despite these
Task
Accuracy
Overall Fleiss’ κ
Error Fleiss’ κ
Gender ID
0.999
0.999
0.356
Speaker ID
0.990
0.983
0.677
Intent Class.
0.998
–
–
Action
0.997
0.997
0.520
Object
0.999
0.999
0.602
Location
0.999
0.999
0.591
Table 1: Agreement in model performance across different runs,
measured using three metrics: Accuracy, Overall and Error
Fleiss’ κ on the test sets.
studies on validity, the reliability of feature attribution for
speech models remains largely unexplored.
3. Methods
For speech classification, pre-trained models are typically
paired with a lightweight feedforward neural network as a
classification head and fine-tuned using labeled data.
Dur-
ing fine-tuning, both the backbone model and classifier ad-
just their weights to emphasize the most relevant input fea-
tures and learned representations, maximizing classification ac-
curacy.
We therefore assume that models starting from the
same pre-trained checkpoint but fine-tuned with different ran-
dom seeds identify and employ comparable relevant features for
a given input, especially when they achieve consistently high
accuracy.
Accordingly, a reliable feature attribution method
should consistently show the same pattern in highlighting the
most important input features for a given utterance across such
models. Our assumption aligns with that in [28].
3.1. Classification models
In our experiments, we use wav2vec2-base2 model and fine-
tune it with nine different seeds for three different speech clas-
sification tasks: gender and speaker identification (Gender ID
and Speaker ID respectively), and intent classification (IC). We
expect the IC task to rely on mostly on the presence of spe-
cific lexical items, while Gender ID and Speaker ID should rely
mostly on lower-level acoustic features.
For Gender ID and Speaker ID, we use a subset of the
Common Voice dataset [29]. We select 40 speakers with self-
reported gender labels of masculine or feminine with 301 utter-
ance for each speaker totalling 12,040 utterances. A stratified
80:20 train-test split was also applied before model fine-tuning.
For intent classification we use the Fluent Speech Commands
dataset [30] with the provided train-test split. We resample the
waveforms in both datasets to 16kHz. The IC task comprises
three related classification subtasks: Action, Object and Loca-
tion. We use a separate classification head for each subtask.
During fine-tuning, we freeze the CNN feature extractor
and the projection layers and only update weights of the trans-
former network and the final classification heads. This makes
sure models with different seeds receive exactly the same input
and allows us to have a fixed CNN embedding across different
models investigated in this paper.
In order to lend further credibility to our assumption about
the equivalency of models, we first evaluate the classification
accuracy as well classification agreement of the different fine-
tuning runs, shown in Table 1. If models’ architecture as well
as behavior is similar, we have more reason to be believe that
their internal computations are also equivalent.
2https://huggingface.co/facebook/wav2vec2-base
267

To measure the agreement between the model runs initial-
ized with different random seeds, we report two separate ver-
sion of Fleiss’ κ. The overall Fleiss’ κ measures the agreement
between all runs on the complete test set. The Error Fleiss’ κ
measures the agreement between model decisions on the subset
of the test data where at least one error was made. Fleiss’ κ = 0
if the agreement between runs is due to chance, and κ = 1 if
the runs agree completely.
We can see that the classification accuracy is near perfect
for all tasks and overall agreement is also very high. Agreement
for the small subset of data points where an error was made is
moderate. Given small percentage of overall errors, we believe
this means the behavior of the models we investigate in this
paper are sufficiently similar.
3.2. ISA reliability metric
To measure the reliability of feature attribution methods, we ex-
amine the consistency of their scores derived from models fine-
tuned with different seeds. Specifically, we calculate the inter-
seed agreement (ISA) metric based on a dynamic top-p metric.
ISA = 1
N
N
X
n=1
|top-p(Ai)n ∩top-p(Aj)n|
|top-p(Ai)n|
(1)
Here p is the percentage of the top indices of the attribution
scores we are interested in. Ai and Aj are the attribution scores
for the i-th and j-th model run. N is the number of samples
in the dataset. The top-p function returns the top p percentage
of indices of the attribution scores. The value of p is fixed at
20%. The intersection of the top-p indices is calculated for each
sample in the dataset. The ISA score is the average of the pair-
wise percentage of shared indices of the top-p attribution scores
for all combinations of random seed pairs. The higher the ISA
score, the more the attribution scores of the models agree with
each other. A baseline ISA can be obtained by randomly shuf-
fling the attribution scores for each sample before calculating
the ISA score.
We use the Captum library [31] to calculate feature at-
tribution scores for the fine-tuned models on their respective
datasets. We test two gradient-based methods: Saliency and In-
tegrated Gradients (IG); and two perturbation-based methods:
LIME and Feature Ablation (FA). For the perturbation-based
methods, we use a feature mask to group waveform input into
10ms spans: this is done due to computational constraints as a
highest tractable resolution for perturbing the waveform.
3.3. Feature attribution conditions
Input feature types.
We calculate the ISA metric for each
of our three input feature types: waveform, spectrogram, and
CNN embeddings. In order to enable attribution to the spectro-
gram for self-supervised models like wav2vec2 and HuBERT
(which use raw waveform as their native input), we follow
[10] by prepending an inverse short-term Fourier transforma-
tion (ISTFT) to the model. We use a hop length of 320 for the
STFT and ISTFT transformations to keep the time resolution at
20ms to be consistent with the wav2vec2 model feature extrac-
tor.
For Integrated Gradients, LIME and Feature Ablation, a
baseline input is needed. We use silence as our baseline: for
the waveform input type we use the silence waveform directly,
while for the other two input types we convert the silence wave-
form into the corresponding spectrogram or CNN embedding
first. All of the attribution methods tested return both positive
and negative values: we do not do any additional processing to
the attribution score before aggregation.
Granularity of aggregation.
We test three granularities
of aggregation: no aggregation, frame-level aggregation, and
word-level aggregation. For frame-level aggregation, we sum
the attribution scores for raw waveform input at 20ms intervals;
spectrogram and CNN embedding input gets summed for every
frame. For word-level aggregation, we aggregate the attribution
scores at the word level using forced-alignment time stamps.
We use Montreal Forced Aligner [32] to align our datasets with
the provided transcriptions. To take varying word lengths into
account, we mean-pool the attribution scores for each word. We
also discard the non-word segments in the alignment.
Granularity of perturbation.
For the perturbation methods
only, the alternative to aggregation is to directly perturb specific
timespans of the input. We test the effect of directly perturbing
word-level segments of the input, based on the same forced-
alignment time stamps as above.
4. Results
We organize the results into groups of comparisons. Within
each group, we present the effects of the varied conditions in
applying feature attribution methods. We visualize the central
tendency (median) of the inter-seed agreement (ISA) scores as
well as the spread around it via boxplots. An individual boxplot
displays a set of 36 pairwise comparisons. We then visualize the
median baseline score of randomly shuffled attribution scores
for all pairwise comparisons via the dashed red lines.
4.1. Effects of input feature types
Figure 1 shows the ISA scores for attribution scores for the
no-aggregation condition. For most combinations of method
and input type the ISA scores are low to moderate (below 0.6).
The exception is the task of Gender ID for the embedding input
type and Integrated Gradients method, which shows a median of
around 0.7 but with a wide spread around it. We also note that
the effect of attribution method is in general larger than that of
the input type. Notably, in most cases LIME shows very low re-
liability, barely above the baseline. This indicates that LIME is
not a suitable attribution method in a high-time resolution set-
ting. At the same time, Integrated Gradients generally shows
the highest reliability.
4.2. Effects of granularity of aggregation
To highlight the impact of granularity of aggregation, we plot
the ISA scores of only the CNN embedding input type at var-
ious levels of aggregation in fig. 2. We can see that different
aggregation levels do not alter the general reliability patterns
we saw in fig. 1. As before, we generally see the best reliabil-
ity for Integrated Gradients. For word-level attribution on the
IC tasks we would expect a higher level of agreement, and yet
we see that ISA scores do not surpass 0.6 for any of the condi-
tion combinations. This is surprising, as intuitively one would
expect that aggregation should smooth out small variations in
attribution scores and increase agreement.
4.3. Perturbations on the word level
Lastly, we also evaluate the reliability of perturbation methods
applied to word-aligned input segments, in a setting analogous
to that described in [11]. Figure 3 shows ISA scores for attri-
bution scores generated with perturbation-based methods oper-
268

Figure 1: Distributions of ISA scores without aggregation. The
rows indicate different input feature types, the columns are dif-
ferent tasks. Within each panel, each boxplot shows results from
different attribution methods and the y-axis is the ISA score. The
red dotted line indicates the randomly shuffled baseline. IG: In-
tegrated Gradients, FA: Feature Ablation.
Figure 2: Distributions of ISA scores for the CNN embedding in-
put type, at different levels of aggregation. The rows are levels
of granularity of aggregation, the columns are different tasks.
Within each panel, each boxplot shows results from different at-
tribution methods and the y-axis is the ISA score. The red dot-
ted line indicates the randomly shuffled baseline. IG: Integrated
Gradients, FA: Feature Ablation.
Figure 3: Distributions of ISA scores with perturbation operat-
ing directly on word-aligned segments. The rows indicate differ-
ent input feature types, the columns are different tasks. Within
each panel, each boxplot report results from different attribu-
tion methods and the y-axis is the ISA score. The red dotted line
indicates the randomly shuffled baseline. FA: Feature Ablation.
ating directly on the word level. Here we see the Intent Clas-
sification tasks showing much higher ISA than in fig. 2. The
reliability of perturbation-based attribution methods on word-
based tasks is much higher when perturbing word-aligned than
aggregating scores obtained from high-resolution features. We
also observe that one of the IC tasks, Location, shows lower
reliability than the other two. This perhaps reflects the degree
to which these different subtasks can rely on redundant lexical
cues.
Interestingly, we see less variations in the score pattern
across different input feature types in fig. 3 than in fig. 1. This
shows that perturbations done on the word-level granularity are
less sensitive to the differences between different input feature
types.
5. Discussion & Conclusion
Our findings show that the naive application of standard fea-
ture attribution methods to speech classification models gener-
ally leads to poor reliability. When attributing to high-resolution
input, regardless of specific input types such as waveform, spec-
trogram or embeddings, even the most reliable of our methods,
Integrated Gradients, does not surpass 50% inter-seed agree-
ment for most tasks. Simply aggregating these scores does not
improve reliability. The likely underlying issue is that the gra-
dients or perturbation effect of such high resolution and highly
correlated redundant features are very small and noisy.
Only in the case of directly perturbing word-aligned seg-
ments of the input, and only for the intent classification sub-
tasks, do we see acceptable reliabilities. The likely explanation
is that classification decisions for these tasks rely on specific
words in the utterance, and that directly perturbing those spe-
cific words and only those words affects model output and thus
attribution scores. There is thus little scope for models to dis-
agree. On the other hand, tasks such as Gender ID and Speaker
ID are unlikely to rely on specific words, and models may use
redundant clues distributed over the whole utterance: thus for
these tasks we do not find a consistently reliable combination
of method and input-type to attribute to. Our findings suggest
that in order for standard atrribution methods to be applicable,
the target speech classification task needs to be similar in nature
to an equivalent text-based task, where token-based attributions
are standard. Ideally, however, we would like feature attribution
to be more wide applicable across varied speech tasks.
5.1. Limitations and future directions
While the scope of this paper is limited to assessing reliabil-
ity, the methods found to be reliable will also need to be evalu-
ated for validity. While previous works have used cross-method
agreement as a proxy for validity, we believe that a more direct
measure of alignment with the target model will be needed. Our
work focused on reliability for attribution to features along the
time dimension. The other important axis for audio data is the
frequency domain: for certain tasks it may be more useful to at-
tribute to frequency-based features. Additionally, for audio data
generally, and for speech specifically, certain high-level features
such as loudness, pitch-contours, or specific aspects of timbre
may also be interesting targets for attribution: for these cases
standard attribution techniques such as those evaluated here are
not directly applicable. Ultimately, spoken language may be
sufficiently different from images or text data that only feature
attribution techniques tailored to the speech domain will prove
reliable enough to be useful.
269

6. Acknowledgements
This publication is part of the project InDeep: Interpreting
Deep Learning Models for Text and Sound (with project number
NWA.1292.19.399) of the National Research Agenda (NWA-
ORC) program.
7. References
[1] A. Baevski, H. Zhou, A. Mohamed, and M. Auli, “Wav2vec 2.0:
A Framework for Self-Supervised Learning of Speech Represen-
tations,” 2020.
[2] W.-N. Hsu, B. Bolte, Y.-H. H. Tsai, K. Lakhotia, R. Salakhutdi-
nov, and A. Mohamed, “HuBERT: Self-Supervised Speech Rep-
resentation Learning by Masked Prediction of Hidden Units,” Jun.
2021.
[3] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A. N.
Gomez, L. Kaiser, and I. Polosukhin, “Attention Is All You Need,”
Dec. 2017.
[4] A. Prasad and P. Jyothi, “How Accents Confound: Probing for
Accent Information in End-to-End Speech Recognition Systems,”
in ACL 2020, D. Jurafsky, J. Chai, N. Schluter, and J. Tetreault,
Eds.
Online: ACL, Jul. 2020, pp. 3739–3753.
[5] S. Becker, J. Vielhaben, M. Ackermann, K.-R. M¨uller, S. La-
puschkin, and W. Samek, “AudioMNIST: Exploring Explainable
Artificial Intelligence for audio analysis on a simple benchmark,”
Journal of the Franklin Institute, vol. 361, no. 1, pp. 418–428, Jan.
2024.
[6] X. Wu, P. Bell, and A. Rajan, “Explanations for Automatic Speech
Recognition,” in ICASSP 2023.
Rhodes Island, Greece: IEEE,
Jun. 2023, pp. 1–5.
[7] ——, “Can We Trust Explainable AI Methods on ASR? An Eval-
uation on Phoneme Recognition,” in ICASSP 2024, Apr. 2024, pp.
10 296–10 300.
[8] S. Gupta, M. Ravanelli, P. Germain, and C. Subakan, “Phoneme
Discretized Saliency Maps for Explainable Detection of AI-
Generated Voice,” Sep. 2024.
[9] D. Fucci, M. Gaido, B. Savoldi, M. Negri, M. Cettolo, and
L. Bentivogli, “SPES: Spectrogram Perturbation for Explainable
Speech-to-Text Generation,” Nov. 2024.
[10] E. Mancini, F. Paissan, P. Torroni, M. Ravanelli, and C. Sub-
akan, “Investigating the Effectiveness of Explainability Methods
in Parkinson’s Detection from Speech,” Nov. 2024.
[11] E. Pastor, A. Koudounas, G. Attanasio, D. Hovy, and E. Bar-
alis, “Explaining speech classification models via word-level au-
dio segments and paralinguistic features,” in EACL 2024, Y. Gra-
ham and M. Purver, Eds., Mar. 2024.
[12] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. Mcleavey,
and I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale
weak supervision,” in Proceedings of the 40th ICML.
PMLR,
2023. [Online]. Available:
https://proceedings.mlr.press/v202/
radford23a.html
[13] M. D. Zeiler and R. Fergus, “Visualizing and Understanding Con-
volutional Networks,” in Computer Vision – ECCV 2014.
Cham:
Springer International Publishing, 2014.
[14] K. Simonyan, A. Vedaldi, and A. Zisserman, “Deep inside
convolutional networks: Visualising image classification models
and saliency maps,” in ICLR 2014, Workshop Track Proceedings,
Y. Bengio and Y. LeCun, Eds., 2014. [Online]. Available:
http://arxiv.org/abs/1312.6034
[15] I. Covert, S. M. Lundberg, and S.-I. Lee, “Explaining by remov-
ing: A unified framework for model explanation,” J. Mach. Learn.
Res., vol. 22, pp. 209:1–209:90, 2020.
[16] J. Bastings and K. Filippova, “The elephant in the interpretability
room: Why use attention as explanation when we have saliency
methods?”
in BlackboxNLP 2020, A. Alishahi, Y. Belinkov,
G. Chrupała, D. Hupkes, Y. Pinter, and H. Sajjad, Eds.
Online:
ACL, Nov. 2020, pp. 149–155.
[17] H. Mohebbi, A. Modarressi, and M. T. Pilehvar, “Exploring the
role of BERT token representations to explain sentence probing
results,” in EMNLP 2021, M.-F. Moens, X. Huang, L. Specia, and
S. W.-t. Yih, Eds.
Online and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic:
ACL, Nov. 2021, pp. 792–806.
[18] D. Pruthi, R. Bansal, B. Dhingra, L. Baldini Soares, M. Collins,
Z. C. Lipton, G. Neubig, and W. W. Cohen, “Evaluating explana-
tions: How much do explanations from the teacher aid students?”
TACL, vol. 10, 2022.
[19] S. Krishna, T. Han, A. Gu, S. Wu, S. Jabbari, and H. Lakkaraju,
“The disagreement problem in explainable machine learning: A
practitioner’s perspective,” TMLR, 2024.
[20] M. Neely, S. F. Schouten, M. J. R. Bleeker, and A. Lucic, “A
song of (dis)agreement: Evaluating the evaluation of explainable
artificial intelligence in natural language processing,” in HHAI,
2022.
[21] L. Sixt, M. Granz, and T. Landgraf, “When explanations lie: Why
many modified bp attributions fail,” in ICML, 2019.
[22] B. Bilodeau, N. Jaques, P. W. Koh, and B. Kim, “Impossibil-
ity theorems for feature attribution,” Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, vol. 121,
2022.
[23] J. Bastings, S. Ebert, P. Zablotskaia, A. Sandholm, and K. Filip-
pova, ““Will you find these shortcuts?” a protocol for evaluating
the faithfulness of input salience methods for text classification,”
in EMNLP 2022, Y. Goldberg, Z. Kozareva, and Y. Zhang, Eds.
ACL, Dec. 2022.
[24] Y. Chen, K. Zhang, F. Hu, X. Wang, R. Li, and Q. Liu, “Dy-
namic Multi-granularity Attribution Network for Aspect-based
Sentiment Analysis,” in EMNLP, Y. Al-Onaizan, M. Bansal, and
Y.-N. Chen, Eds.
Miami, Florida, USA: ACL, 2024.
[25] H. Muckenhirn, V. Abrol, M. Magimai-Doss, and S. Marcel, “Un-
derstanding and Visualizing Raw Waveform-Based CNNs,” in In-
terspeech 2019.
ISCA, Sep. 2019.
[26] M. T. Ribeiro, S. Singh, and C. Guestrin, ““Why Should I Trust
You?”: Explaining the predictions of any classifier,” in Proceed-
ings of the 22nd ACM SIGKDD ICKDDM, 2016.
[27] Garofolo, John S., Lamel, Lori F., Fisher, William M., Pal-
lett, David S., Dahlgren, Nancy L., Zue, Victor, and Fiscus,
Jonathan G., “TIMIT Acoustic-Phonetic Continuous Speech Cor-
pus,” 1993.
[28] P. Atanasova, J. G. Simonsen, C. Lioma, and I. Augenstein,
“A diagnostic study of explainability techniques for text
classification,” in EMNLP.
Online:
ACL, Nov. 2020, pp.
3256–3274. [Online]. Available: https://aclanthology.org/2020.
emnlp-main.263/
[29] R. Ardila, M. Branson,
K. Davis, M. Kohler,
J. Meyer,
M. Henretty, R. Morais, L. Saunders, F. Tyers, and G. Weber,
“Common voice: A massively-multilingual speech corpus,” in
Proceedings of the 12th LREC.
ELRA, May 2020. [Online].
Available: https://aclanthology.org/2020.lrec-1.520/
[30] L. Lugosch, M. Ravanelli, P. Ignoto, V. S. Tomar, and Y. Bengio,
“Speech Model Pre-training for End-to-End Spoken Language
Understanding,” Jul. 2019.
[31] N. Kokhlikyan, V. Miglani, M. Martin, E. Wang, B. Alsallakh,
J. Reynolds, A. Melnikov, N. Kliushkina, C. Araya, S. Yan, and
O. Reblitz-Richardson, “Captum: A unified and generic model
interpretability library for PyTorch,” 2020.
[32] M. McAuliffe, M. Socolof, S. Mihuc, M. Wagner, and M. Son-
deregger, “Montreal Forced Aligner:
Trainable Text-Speech
Alignment Using Kaldi,” in Interspeech 2017. ISCA, Aug. 2017,
pp. 498–502.
270
