warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Tungna´a in Live Performance: An Implementation of Interactive Artistic
Text-To-Voice
Victor Shepardson1, Jonathan Reus2, Thor Magnusson1,2
1Intelligent Instruments Lab, University of Iceland
2EMUTE Lab, University of Sussex, UK
victorshepardson@hi.is, j.reus@sussex.ac.uk, thormagnusson@hi.is
Abstract
We demonstrate Tungnaa, a software musical instrument
for controlling interactive artistic text-to-voice (IATV) models.
IATV is a proposed low-resource text-conditional voice gener-
ation task for musical performance applications. Tungna´a is a
Python package implementing IATV training, a real-time infer-
ence engine and graphical interface for performance with IATV
models. We also describe an application of Tungnaa in collab-
oration with sound poet Jaap Blonk.
Index Terms: Interactive Artistic Text-to-Voice, Controllable
TTS, Artistic Exploration, Streaming Vocoder
1. Introduction
We demonstrate Tungna´a, a real-time software instrument that
implements a proposed framework for interactive artistic text-
to-voice (IATV). We also describe the process of creating a be-
spoke IATV dataset and Tungna´a model in collaboration with
Dutch sound poet Jaap Blonk.
IATV is a new research task for voice synthesis situated
within the field of interactive art. Much of the research land-
scape around artistic use of voice synthesis has focused on ap-
plications such as voice acting and pop vocal production. How-
ever, there are few options available for those with interests in
abstract explorations of vocal sounds, interactive art, live per-
formance, or improvisation. We see a desire to experiment with
these kinds of systems within the artistic community, beginning
with interest in the “WaveNet Aesthetic” of hyperrealistic and
uncanny babbling first heard in a 2016 demo [1], and found in
the work of contemporary musicians like Holly Herndon [2],
DadaBots and Jennifer Walshe [3], the 2021 Mouse on Mars al-
bum AAI, and in the live performances of Jonathan Reus [4] and
Kelsey Cotton [5].
These latter examples reflect the specific requirements of a
voice system for live performance as embodied by work within
the New Instruments for Musical Expression (NIME) research
community [6], where an earlier iteration of this work was
demonstrated [7].
2. Interactive Artistic Text-to-Voice
In a concurrent submission to the INTERSPEECH 2025 paper
track, we propose IATV as a task and describe our efforts adapt-
ing TTS methods to solve it. Briefly, IATV is a text-conditional
audio generation task with the following requirements:
1. Real-time performance with worst-case latency below 100
milliseconds, suitable for use in musical performance.
2. Interactivity, with human-in-the-loop manipulation of the
synthesis process.
3. Controllability, exposing the underlying neural synthesis en-
gine to induce alignment failures, artefacts and babbling.
4. Flexibility, without assumptions about voice style or method
of text transcription (except for some temporal monotonic
alignment between text and audio).
5. “Hi-Fi” audio, representing frequencies up to 20 kHz and
with dynamic range suitable for digital music applications.
6. Openness, for users to train their own models, run them lo-
cally and integrate with other tools.
7. Customizability, with training on small datasets or bespoke
text notations which may not resemble pretraining data.
Our proposed IATV system includes RAVE [8] as a stream-
ing vocoder, which is to our knowledge its first use in a text-to-
voice system. We use a pretrained token-free text encoder [9]
to allow the creation of flexible text conditioning systems. Fi-
nally, we developed a Tacotron2-family [10] recurrent network
for low-latency joint alignment and generation of vocoder pa-
rameters from small datasets.
3. Tungna´a
Figure 1: The Tungna´a GUI.
Tungna´a is a Python package1 which incorporates training
code for our IATV implementation, a real-time inference en-
1https://pypi.org/project/tungnaa
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2149

gine, and a front-end musical instrument interface. A video
demonstration is available in the accompanying materials.
3.1. Inference Engine
Our inference engine is built in Python using PyTorch and
TorchScript [11]. The text encoder runs asynchronously in its
own thread, computing new text features on demand as the
user finishes entering a text. The recurrent IATV model and
causal convolutional vocoder run in a different thread, which
can buffer a few frames ahead to trade off stability for latency.
Worker threads spend most time in C extensions, while the GUI
runs in separate Python process, enabling low latency streaming
inference without dropping audio frames. Tungna´a can run on
a modern laptop under Linux and macOS.
3.2. Graphical Interface
The GUI is also built in Python using Qt. Functions of the GUI
can also be controlled remotely using Open Sound Control [12]
for integration with common computer music software.
Tungna´a’s GUI consists of three areas: text entry, align-
ment, and vocoder (Figure 1). A text entry field allows the per-
former to provide text for Tungna´a to vocalise. The text can be
sent on command to the text encoder, resetting the alignments.
A scrolling alignment graph depicts progress through the
text over time. Once encoded, an input text appears along the
horizontal axis of the graph, while time is on the vertical axis,
with the present time at the top. Light pixels denote the portion
of the text being used by the model at a given time. If attention
painting mode is engaged, the paint bar allows the performer
to directly manipulate this alignment. Otherwise, the system
autonomously reads through the text according to its learned
alignment model. By clicking into the alignment graph, a user
can intervene by instantly moving the alignment (along the text
axis) and return to a previous hidden state (along the time axis).
In the vocoder section, a set of meters and sliders display
the RAVE latent vectors as they are produced by the alignment
model, while a temperature control affects how variable they
are. By manipulating the sliders, a performer can apply a bias
to each latent variable in the vocoder, where dimensions related
to loudness, voicedness, frontalization of vowels and so forth
can often be discerned. With a latent feedback switch, the user
chooses whether the biased vocoder signal is fed back into the
alignment model to also affect the timing.
4. Application: Bla Blavatar vs Jaap Blonk
Tungna´a was used in a collaboration with the prolific Dutch
sound poet Jaap Blonk to create the live performance Bla
Blavatar vs. Jaap Blonk. Sound poetry is a form of poetry with
origins in the European Futurist and Dada art movements which
blurs the lines between poetry and music performance, often in-
volving extensive exploration of voice sounds and the invention
of new voice notation systems. As sound poetry is also meant
to be experienced live, it serves as a suitable exemplar scenario
for testing the efficacy of an IATV system.
In collaboration with Blonk, we created an IATV dataset
consisting of approximately two hours of voice audio record-
ings paired with notations written in a heuristic phonetic sys-
tem called RPA (Reduced Phonetic Alphabet). This dataset was
used to train an IATV model which was then used with Tungna´a
in live performance.
In each performance, Blonk performs a different algorith-
mically generated RPA score. Throughout the performance he
“battles” the Bla Blavatar, an artifical sound poet controlled by
a second performer using Tungna´a. As part of the artwork, all
of Blonk’s vocalisations are recorded and matched to the RPA
score, expanding the dataset with each performance and con-
tributing to a better IATV model each time.
5. Conclusions
This show-and-tell demonstrates one possible implementation
of the IATV research task, as the stand-alone IATV software
Tungna´a, and describes the process of creating a bespoke IATV
dataset and model within the performance Bla Blavatar vs. Jaap
Blonk. By describing the IATV task and its requirements, we
hope to spark more artist-led work in the field of voice tech-
nology research. By presenting an example implementation of
software that meets the IATV requirements and has been tested
in a demanding live performance situation, we demonstrate the
feasibility and potential of IATV systems, providing tangible
evidence of the concept’s viability.
6. References
[1] A. v. d. Oord et al., “Wavenet: A generative model for raw audio,”
Sep 2016, arXiv:1609.03499 [cs].
[2] H. Herndon, PROTO.
Stanford University, 2019, dMA thesis.
[Online]. Available: https://purl.stanford.edu/fh292ky0538
[3] Z. Zukowski and C. J. Carr, “Generating black metal and
math rock: Beyond bach, beethoven, and beatles,” Nov 2018,
arXiv:1811.06639 [cs, eess].
[4] J. C. Reus, “i:
goU weI,” AIMC 2023, Aug 2023. [Online].
Available: https://aimc2023.pubpub.org/pub/hpy32yre/release/4
[5] K. Cotton and K. Tatar,
“Sounding out extra-normal AI
voice:
Non-normative
musical
engagements
with
norma-
tive AI voice and speech technologies,” AIMC 2024, Aug.
2024. [Online]. Available:
https://aimc2024.pubpub.org/pub/
extranormal-aivoice/release/1
[6] R. Kleinberger, N. Singh, X. Xiao, and A. v. Troyer, “Voice
at nime:
a taxonomy of new interfaces for vocal musical
expression,” in Proc. New Interfaces for Musical Expression, Jun
2022. [Online]. Available: https://nime.pubpub.org/pub/180al5zt/
release/1
[7] V. Shepardson, J. Reus, and T. Magnusson, “Tungna´a: a Hyper-
realistic Voice Synthesis Instrument for Real-Time Exploration
of Extended Vocal Expressions,” Oct. 2024, pages: 536–540
Publication Title: Proceedings of the International Conference
on New Interfaces for Musical Expression Publisher: Zenodo.
[Online]. Available: https://zenodo.org/records/13904943
[8] A. Caillon and P. Esling, “RAVE: A variational autoencoder for
fast and high-quality neural audio synthesis,” arXiv:2111.05011
[cs, eess], Nov. 2021, arXiv: 2111.05011 version: 1.
[9] J. H. Clark, D. Garrette, I. Turc, and J. Wieting, “CANINE:
Pre-training an Efficient Tokenization-Free Encoder for Language
Representation,” Trans. ACL, vol. 10, pp. 73–91, Jan. 2022,
arXiv:2103.06874 [cs].
[10] J. Shen et al., “Natural tts synthesis by conditioning wavenet on
mel spectrogram predictions,” Feb 2018, arXiv:1712.05884 [cs].
[11] J. Ansel et al., “PyTorch 2: Faster Machine Learning Through
Dynamic Python Bytecode Transformation and Graph Compila-
tion,” in Proc. 29th ACM International Conference on Architec-
tural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Sys-
tems, Volume 2.
Association for Computing Machinery, 2024.
[12] M.
Wright,
“OpenSoundControl
Specification
1.0,”
Mar.
2002. [Online]. Available:
https://opensoundcontrol.stanford.
edu/spec-1 0.html
2150

