warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Examining Test-Time Adaptation for Personalized Child Speech Recognition
Zhonghao Shi1,2, Xuan Shi1, Anfeng Xu1, Tiantian Feng1, Harshvardhan Srivastava2,3, Shrikanth
Narayanan1, Maja Mataric1
1Viterbi School of Engineering, University of Southern California, United States
2Sara Technology Inc., United States
3Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science, Columbia University, United States
zhonghas@usc.edu,xuanshi@usc.edu, anfengxu@usc.edu, tiantiaf@usc.edu,
hs3447@columbia.edu, shri@usc.edu, mataric@usc.edu
Abstract
Automatic speech recognition (ASR) models often experi-
ence performance degradation due to data domain shifts intro-
duced at test time, a challenge that is further amplified for child
speakers.
Test-time adaptation (TTA) methods have shown
great potential in bridging this domain gap. However, the use of
TTA to adapt ASR models to the individual differences in each
child’s speech has not yet been systematically studied. In this
work, we investigate the effectiveness of two widely used TTA
methods–SUTA, SGEM–in adapting off-the-shelf ASR models
and their fine-tuned versions for child speech recognition, with
the goal of enabling continuous, unsupervised adaptation at test
time. Our findings show that TTA significantly improves the
performance of both off-the-shelf and fine-tuned ASR models,
both on average and across individual child speakers, compared
to unadapted baselines. However, while TTA helps adapt to in-
dividual variability, it may still be limited with non-linguistic
child speech.
Index Terms: children speech recognition, human-computer
interaction, test time adaptation
1. Introduction
Child-AI interaction enabled by AI software agents [1] and so-
cially assistive robots [2] has shown great potential for many ap-
plication domains, for example education [3,4]. Conversational
capabilities for these AI agents can support natural interaction
with the child in achieving task goals [5]. To enable seam-
less human-like interaction, these AI agents and robots require
accurate recognition of child speech [6]. Despite tremendous
progress in machine learning methods for automatic speech
recognition (ASR), a large body of recent work has shown that
off-the-shelf ASR models do not generalize well to children’s
speech data, due to the high amount of acoustic and linguistic
variability [7], resulting in data domain shifts between the adult
data used for pre-training and for testing [8,9].
Recent work on child ASR [10–18] has experimented with
various supervised and unsupervised methods to adapt off-the-
shelf ASR models at training time. These studies have pro-
posed applying methods such as transfer learning [10–13, 19],
continued pre-training [14], adapters [15,16], low-rank adapta-
tion [17] and unsupervised domain adaptation [20, 21] to fine-
tune and adapt the off-the-shelf ASR models with annotated
children’s speech data at training time. The results from these
prior work have shown that both supervised and unsupervised
adaptation at training time can substantially improve models for
recognizing children’s speech.
Despite recent progress, training-time adaptation is not al-
ways feasible for real-world model deployments due to sev-
eral limitations:
(1) individual variability:
each new child
Table 1: Definitions of different model adaptation settings for
child speech recognition, adapted from [22].
Unlike other
adaptation settings, TTA adapts off-the-shelf ASR models with
childc data (xc) only at test time, without the need of annota-
tions (yc) or adulta pre-training dataset (xa, ya) at training
time.
Setting
Train Loss
Test Loss
Supervised Pre-training
L(xa, ya)
-
Supervised Fine-Tuning
L(xc, yc)
-
Unsupervised
L(xa, ya, xc)
-
Domain Adaptation
Unsupervised
-
L(xc)
Test-Time Adaptation
(Ours)
speaker introduces domain shifts at test time, and one-size-
fits-all training-time adaptation fails to capture these individual
differences; (2) annotation constraints: supervised adaptation
requires labeled data, but obtaining annotations for each user
poses significant financial, human labor, and logistical chal-
lenges; and (3) privacy and computational constraints: Users
may prefer to keep their data private on local devices with lim-
ited computing and storage capacity, making both supervised
and unsupervised training-time adaptation impractical.
Recent advancements in unsupervised test-time adapta-
tion (TTA) methods offer a computationally efficient alterna-
tive [22–24], enabling on-the-fly model adaptation to test data
domains without requiring human annotations. However, no
prior work has systematically evaluated the effectiveness of
TTA methods in addressing domain adaptation challenges in
child speech recognition. In this work, we investigate this gap
by conducting experiments to answer three research questions,
and report the following results and findings:
• RQ1: Why is TTA needed for ASR models in child speech
recognition? We found that both off-the-shelf and fine-tuned
ASR models do not generalize robustly across different child
speakers. Substantial domain shifts occur both across and
within individual speakers, highlighting the need for adapta-
tion at test time.
• RQ2: Can unsupervised TTA methods effectively adapt both
off-the-shelf and fine-tuned ASR models for child speech
recognition? As shown in Table 2, we evaluated two pop-
ular TTA methods–SUTA and SGEM–across various off-
the-shelf and fine-tuned model settings, using the MyST
dataset. Our results indicate that SUTA is more robust than
SGEM across different model settings. Notably, SUTA sig-
nificantly improves both off-the-shelf models trained on out-
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2820
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2513

of-domain adult speech and models fine-tuned on in-domain
child speech. These findings further validate the need for test-
time adaptation to account for individual variability.
• RQ3: When do TTA methods perform well, and when do they
fail? We conducted extensive analyses to probe the relation-
ship between TTA performance and acoustic as well as lin-
guistic characteristics of the input samples. We found that
TTA may help adaptation to the individual background noise
level, while non-linguistic speech may be particularly chal-
lenging and misleading for TTA’s adaptation process.
2. Methods
In this work, we examine two widely used test-time adapta-
tion (TTA) methods: 1) Single-Utterance Test-Time Adaptation
(SUTA) ; and 2) Sequential-Level Generalized Entropy Mini-
mization (SGEM). Our goal is to evaluate their effectiveness
in adapting various off-the-shelf and fine-tuned ASR models to
each child speaker in a continuous and unsupervised fashion.
2.1. Problem Formulation
A canonical ASR model can be denoted as z = f(x, θ), where
x is the input speech waveform, and θ refers to the ASR model
parameters. Off-the-shelf ASR models are typically pre-trained
on a primarily adulta dataset Dadult = {(xa
i , ya
i )}I in a su-
pervised or self-supervised manner, to estimate θa. The models
are then used to transcribe ˆyt
j from xt
j ∈Dtest, which assumes
identical distribution with Dadult. However, when recognizing
child speech Dchild, there exists a significant data domain shift
between Dadult = {(xa
i , ya
i )}I and Dchild = {(xc
i, yc
i )}I due
to the wide acoustic and linguistic variability in child speech
and lack of child-specific ASR dataset [8,9].
To address this challenge, we use test-time adaptation
(TTA) methods to adjust the parameters of the off-the-shelf
ASR model θa →θc, so that models can adapt to the do-
main shifts at test time for childc speech. The goal of TTA is
to design optimization objectives (L) based on the output log-
its z ∈RL×C to adapt ASR models to the current test child’s
speech by continuously updating a small portion of model’s pa-
rameters, where z ∈RL×C is the predicted context logits. L
is the total number of timestamp, and C is the number of word
class.
2.2. Test-Time Adaptation Methods
This work experimented with two widely used TTA methods:
1) SUTA [23]; and 2) SGEM [24] to adapt the feature extractor
layers of Wav2vec2.0. The unsupervised optimization objec-
tive of SUTA [23] consists of two parts: 1) Shannon entropy
minimization loss (Lem) and 2) negative sampling loss (Lmcc).
With the weighting hyper-parameter α, the overall loss function
is denoted as follows:
LSUT A = αLem + (1 −α)Lmcc
(1)
On the other hand, the unsupervised optimization objective
of SGEM [24] consists of two parts: 1) generalized R´enyi en-
tropy minimization (LGEM) and 2) negative sampling loss (LNS).
With a weighting hyper-parameter λ, the overall loss function
is denoted as follows:
LSGEM = LGEM + λLNS,
(2)
2.3. Off-the-shelf and Fine-Tuned ASR Models
We examined the effectiveness of TTA on two sets of models:
1) off-the-shelf models: off-the-shelf ASR models trained on
LibriSpeech, which primarily include out-of-domain non-child
speech data; 2) fine-tuned models: off-the-shelf ASR models
fine-tuned on the training set of MyST with in-domain child
speech data. Specifically, we used two off-the-shelf ASR mod-
els (Wav2vec2-base-960h1 and Wav2vec2-large-960h2) that are
trained on 960 hours of data from Librispeech [25]. To fur-
ther investigate the need for continuous adaptation to each child
speaker’s characteristics after fine-tuning, we fine-tuned both
Wav2vec2-base and Wav2vec2-large on the MyST dataset’s
training set, which consists of child speech. We used a learn-
ing rate of 1e −5 with the Adam optimizer for 50,000 steps,
and a batch size of 32. The best model was selected based on
the word error rate (WER) on the validation set, which was eval-
uated every 200 steps.
2.4. Datasets
This work used both the training and test set of My Science Tu-
tor (MyST) dataset [26], currently one of the largest publicly
available datasets for child speech recognition3. After remov-
ing recordings and utterances with missing annotations in the
MyST dataset, we included data from 2622 children in the train-
ing set, and data from 438 children in the validation set, to fine-
tune off-the-shelf ASR models. We used 91 childrens’ data in
the test set of MyST to evaluate TTA methods in all model set-
tings, as listed in Table 2. We only used utterances of less than
30s for the fine-tuning, following the setting in [18], resulting in
24.1 (SD=13.9) and 22.7 (SD=10.2) utterances for the training
and validation dataset, respectively. For the test set, there were
on average 140 (SD=99) utterances for each child speaker in
the dataset. The duration of the utterances varied from less than
1 second to 111.4 seconds across all speakers. Overall, 129.3,
19.2, and 28.0 hours of data were included in the training, vali-
dation, and test set, respectively.
2.5. Evaluation Experimental Setup
We developed our codebase based on the open-sourced imple-
mentation from [24] 4. All experimental settings such as learn-
ing rate and optimizer were kept consistent between settings.
For both TTA methods, the adaptation step was set to N = 10.
The weighting hyper-parameter was set to the following default
values: α = 0.3 for SUTA and λ = 0.3 for SGEM. We evalu-
ated ASR models using word error rate (WER). Due to the data
distribution imbalance – a small group of speakers had many
utterances – we report the unweighted average WER based on
the speaker rather than the utterance, so the results accurately
represent the ASR system’s performance for each child.
3. Experiments, Results, and Discussion
3.1. Why is TTA needed for ASR models in child speech
recognition?
Prior work has primarily reported average WER as a measure
of model performance for child speech recognition [10–18], but
overall average WER tends to overlook individual WER differ-
1https://huggingface.co/facebook/wav2vec2-base-960h
2https://huggingface.co/facebook/wav2vec2-large-960h
3https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2021S05
4https://github.com/drumpt/SGEM
2821

Figure
1:
Unadapted
baseline
performance
for
both
LibriSpeech-off-the-shelf and MyST-fine-tuned Wav2vec2-base
models in word error rate (WER).
Figure 2: Domain shift across and within child speakers. (A)
Significant domain shift between child speakers; (B) Significant
variance and domain shift within child speakers.
ences between child speakers. As shown in Figure 1, before
we applied test-time adaptation (TTA) methods, we first an-
alyzed the performance of off-the-shelf ASR models for each
child speaker individually. As shown in Figure 1, for both un-
adapted off-the-shelf and fine-tuned Wav2vec2-base, we dis-
covered substantial differences in WER across speakers. By
fine-tuning the model with child speech (training set of MyST),
we observed noticeable decreases in both WER average (from
30.5% to 24.3%) and standard deviation (from 11.8% to 8.8%)
across individual speakers, indicating that fine-tuning is effec-
tive to improve ASR performance across child speakers. How-
ever, as visualized in Figure 1(A) and (B), the differences quan-
tified by the standard deviation still suggest that neither off-the-
shelf nor fine-tuned ASR models generalize robustly across dif-
ferent child speakers, highlighting the need for more individual-
level test-time adaptation to ensure model robustness for all
speakers.
We also analyzed and visualized the MFCC features ex-
tracted using Librosa [27] using the T-distributed stochastic
neighbor embedding (t-SNE). We calculated the pair-wise Bhat-
tacharya distance across all pairs of child speakers in MyST
data, and visualized the pair with one of the largest distances
in Figure 2(A). The results validate that there may be a signif-
icant distribution shift between child speakers. As shown in
Figure 2(B), we also calculated the variance within each child
speaker’s embedding from MyST (Mean=1545.5 , SD=915.3)
and found that it is significantly larger than the variance within
each adult speaker from Librispeech (Mean=259.1, SD=275.0).
Our findings suggest that child speakers may also have larger
distribution shifts both across and within their data distribu-
tion due to more expressive and personal speech characteris-
tics, unique non-linguistic and unintelligible speech, and envi-
ronment noise, which need to be addressed at test time. These
findings further motivate the need for applying test-time adap-
tation for child speech recognition to ensure robust model gen-
Table 2: WER comparisons of TTA methods (SUTA and SGEM)
with the unadapted baseline on test set of MyST dataset in dif-
ferent off-the-shelf and fine-tuned model settings.
Model Setting
TTA Method
WER
∆
Stat. Sig.
Off-The-Shelf
Wav2vec2-base
Unadapted
30.5%
–
–
SUTA
27.5%
-3%
p <.001
SGEM
27.2%
-3.3%
p <.001
Off-The-Shelf
Wav2vec2-large
Unadapted
26.6%
–
–
SUTA
25.1%
-1.5%
p <.001
SGEM
25.3%
-1.3%
p <.001
Fine-Tuned
Wav2vec2-base
Unadapted
24.3%
–
–
SUTA
22.8%
-1.5%
p <.001
SGEM
23.8%
-0.5%
p <.001
Fine-Tuned
Wav2vec2-large
Unadapted
23.2%
–
–
SUTA
22.5%
-0.7%
p <.001
SGEM
23.4%
0.2%
p <.001
eralization to individual variability in real-world applications.
3.2. Can unsupervised TTA methods effectively adapt both
off-the-shelf and fine-tuned ASR models for child speech
recognition?
Off-the-shelf models.
As shown in Table 2, on average,
both SUTA and SGEM effectively reduced WER from the un-
adapted baseline.
SUTA outperformed the unadapted base-
line by 3% in WER when using the off-the-shelf Wav2vec2-
base, and SUTA outperformed the unadapted baseline by 1.5%
with the off-the-shelf Wav2vec2-large. In addition to report-
ing average model performance, we conducted individual two-
sided Wilcoxon signed-rank tests between the TTA condition
(N=91) and the unadapted condition (N=91), to further vali-
date whether the improvements extend across all child speak-
ers and are not driven by gains from a small group of speakers.
We found that both SUTA and SGEM significantly improved
from the unadapted baseline across different speakers for both
Wav2vec2-base and Wav2vec2-large. These results suggest that
TTA can help adapt ASR models from adult (LibriSpeech) to
child (MyST) from the off-the-shelf models.
On an individual speaker level, as shown in Figure 3 (A)
and (C), we visualized the performance gain enabled by SUTA
over the unadapted baseline for each child speaker. A darker
blue indicates a larger performance gain from TTA, and the
speakers are numbered using the ranking of unadapted WER
presented in Figure 1 (A). For off-the-shelf models, the major-
ity of speakers benefited from TTA. In Figure 3(A), we found
that S7, who benefited from SUTA the most when using off-
the-shelf Wav2vec2-base, had a 10.3% gain with SUTA. In Fig-
ure 3(C), we found that S20, who benefited from SUTA the most
when using off-the-shelf Wav2vec2-large, had a 7.1% gain with
SUTA. However, we also observed inconsistent cases such as
S3 (WER drop of 3.1%) in Figure 3(A) and S3 (WER drop of
12.5%), in Figure 3(C). These results suggest that although TTA
effectively improved WER for most speakers, the current TTA
method may still not be sufficiently capable of providing per-
formance gains for every child speaker.
Fine-tuned models. A body of prior work has shown that
fine-tuning off-the-shelf models on in-domain child speech data
can effectively adapt for the adult-child domain gap. However,
based on our findings from Section 3.1, we hypothesized that
2822

Figure 3: Heatplots of WER (%) performance gains for all 91
child speakers in four model settings adapted by SUTA. Note:
speakers are numbered (1-91) using the ranking listed in Fig-
ure 1 (A).
the individual variability between each child speaker still needs
to be adapted at test time. As shown in Table 2, our results
validated our hypothesis. Even after in-domain fine-tuning, on
average, SUTA outperformed the unadapted baseline by 1.5%
in WER using the fine-tuned Wav2vec2-base, and by 0.7% in
the most challenging case of using the fine-tuned Wav2vec2-
large. We noticed that SGEM performed worse than SUTA for
the fine-tuned ASR models, suggesting that SUTA may be the
more robust TTA method across different model settings.
At the individual speaker level, as shown in Figure 3(B)
and (D), the majority of the speakers also benefited from TTA
for fine-tuned models. However, the performance gains were
less than the corresponding off-the-shelf models as expected.
In Figure 3(B), we found that S3, which benefited from SUTA
the most when using the fine-tuned Wav2vec2-base, had a 6.2%
gain with SUTA after fine-tuning. In Figure 3(D), we found
that S11, which benefited from SUTA the most when using
the off-the-shelf Wav2vec2-large, had a 3.6% gain with SUTA
after fine-tuning.
However, we also observed performance
drops, such as S40 (WER drop of 1.2%) in Figure 3(A) and S3
(WER drop of 3.1%) in Figure 3(D). When using the fine-tuned
Wav2vec2-large, as shown in Figure 3(D), 11 speakers experi-
enced performance declines after adaptation with SUTA. While
this result is expected given that fine-tuned Wav2vec2-large is
the most accurate unadapted model setting, it further suggests
that the current TTA methods may be less capable of selectively
adapting to individual variability while preventing performance
degradation for highly accurate models.
3.3. When do TTA methods perform well and when do they
fail?
Background noise level can also be a source of individual vari-
ability that needs to be adapted at test time. To validate this, we
Table 3: Acoustic and linguistic feature analysis. We conducted
a Spearman’s rank-order correlation test to examine the rela-
tionship between TTA’s performance gain and three acoustic
and linguistic features: (1) effective mean squared (EMS) en-
ergy, and (2) word duration.
Model Setting
EMS Energy
Word Duration
Off-the-shelf
Wav2vec2-base
r = 0.22
p = .04
r = -0.30
p < .01
Off-the-shelf
Wav2vec2-large
r = 0.02
p > .05
r = -0.56
p < .001
Fine-Tuned
Wav2vec2-base
r = −0.09
p = 0.37
r = 0.41
p < .001
Fine-Tuned
Wav2vec2-large
r = 0.23
p = 0.03
r = -0.29
p < .01
conducted a Spearman’s rank-order correlation test with Holm-
Bonferroni (HB) correction [28] between speakers’ effective
mean squared (EMS) energy level during non-speech regions
and TTA’s performance gain. We obtained the non-speech re-
gions using Silero voice activity detector [29] and calculated
EMS energy using Librosa [27]. We found moderate correla-
tions in both the off-the-shelf Wav2vec2-base and fine-tuned
Wav2vec2-large model settings, suggesting TTA may help to
adapt for background noise level at test time.
In addition, we also examined the speech data of speak-
ers who did not benefit from TTA, such as speaker S3 in
Figure 3(A), (C) and (D). Comparing them qualitatively with
speakers who experienced greater improvements from TTA,
we observed that those with performance degradation tended
to produce a high proportion of prolonged and non-linguistic
speech.
Since these speech segments were not reflected in
the ground-truth transcription, they may have misled the op-
timization process during TTA. Quantitatively analyzing these
speech patterns would require human annotations to accurately
identify non-linguistic speech. However, we noticed that such
non-linguistic speech often occurred before or after linguistic
speech, effectively increasing the overall duration of the audio
clip beyond what was necessary. To approximate this effect, we
calculated the duration of the word as:
Word Duration =
Total Speech Duration (seconds)
Number of Words in Transcription
Despite the limitations of this approximation, we found a signif-
icant correlation between speaking rate and TTA’s performance
gain in all four modeling settings adapted by SUTA (p<.01) af-
ter HB correction, suggesting that the presence of non-linguistic
speech may contribute to performance degradation in certain
speakers.
4. Conclusion
In this work, we systematically examined the needs and perfor-
mance of two widely used test-time adaptation (TTA) methods–
SUTA, SGEM–to enable continuous adaptation of child speech
data at test time.
Our findings show that TTA significantly
improved the performance of both off-the-shelf and their fine-
tuned versions for child speech recognition, both on average and
across individual child speakers, compared to unadapted base-
lines. Our acoustic and linguistic analysis also discovered that
TTA may help adaptation to the individual background noise
levels, while finding non-linguistic speech may be particularly
challenging and misleading for test-time adaptation.
2823

5. Acknowledgment
This work was supported by National Science Foundation (IIS-
1925083), Simons Foundation (SFI-AR-HUMAN-00004115-
03, 655054), and Sara Technology Inc. The authors alone are
responsible for the content and conclusions.
6. References
[1] W. Huang, K. F. Hew, and L. K. Fryer, “Chatbots for lan-
guage learning—are they really useful? a systematic review of
chatbot-supported language learning,” Journal of Computer As-
sisted Learning, vol. 38, no. 1, pp. 237–257, 2022.
[2] T. Belpaeme, P. Baxter, J. De Greeff, J. Kennedy, R. Read,
R. Looije, M. Neerincx, I. Baroni, and M. C. Zelati, “Child-robot
interaction: Perspectives and challenges,” in Social Robotics: 5th
International Conference, ICSR 2013, Bristol, UK, October 27-
29, 2013, Proceedings 5.
Springer, 2013, pp. 452–459.
[3] W. Holmes and I. Tuomi, “State of the art and practice in ai in
education,” European Journal of Education, vol. 57, no. 4, pp.
542–570, 2022.
[4] M. Li, S. Zha, W. Gong, and Y. Jia, “A survey of human-computer
interaction technology in intelligent home for children’s learn-
ing,” Journal of Computer-Aided Design & Computer Graphics,
vol. 35, no. 2, pp. 248–261, 2023.
[5] S. S. Narayanan and A. Potamianos, “Creating conversational in-
terfaces for children,” IEEE Transactions on Speech and Audio
Processing, vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 65–78 [IEEE Signal Processing So-
ciety Best Paper Award Wnner, 2005], feb 2002.
[6] A. Potamianos and S. S. Narayanan, “Robust recognition of chil-
dren’s speech,” IEEE Transactions on Speech and Audio Process-
ing, vol. 11, no. 6, pp. 603–616, nov 2003.
[7] S. Lee, A. Potamianos, and S. S. Narayanan, “Acoustics of chil-
dren’s speech: Developmental changes of temporal and spectral
parameters,” Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, vol.
105, no. 3, pp. 1455–1468, mar 1999, selected Research Article.
[8] V. Bhardwaj, M. T. Ben Othman, V. Kukreja, Y. Belkhier, M. Ba-
jaj, B. S. Goud, A. U. Rehman, M. Shafiq, and H. Hamam, “Auto-
matic speech recognition (asr) systems for children: A systematic
literature review,” Applied Sciences, vol. 12, no. 9, p. 4419, 2022.
[9] P.
Gurunath
Shivakumar
and
S.
Narayanan,
“End-to-end
neural systems for automatic children speech recognition: An
empirical study,” Computer Speech & Language, vol. 72, p.
101289, 2022. [Online]. Available:
https://www.sciencedirect.
com/science/article/pii/S0885230821000905
[10] S. Shraddha, S. Kumar et al., “Child speech recognition on end-
to-end neural asr models,” in 2022 2nd International Conference
on Intelligent Technologies (CONIT).
IEEE, 2022, pp. 1–6.
[11] R. Jain, A. Barcovschi, M. Yiwere, P. Corcoran, and H. Cucu,
“Adaptation of whisper models to child speech recognition,” in
INTERSPEECH, 2023.
[12] J. Thienpondt and K. Demuynck, “Transfer learning for robust
low-resource children’s speech asr with transformers and source-
filter warping,” in INTERSPEECH, 2022.
[13] T. Rolland, A. Abad, C. Cucchiarini, and H. Strik, “Multilingual
transfer learning for children automatic speech recognition,”
in Proceedings of the Thirteenth Language Resources and
Evaluation Conference, N. Calzolari, F. B´echet, P. Blache,
K. Choukri, C. Cieri, T. Declerck, S. Goggi, H. Isahara,
B. Maegaard, J. Mariani, H. Mazo, J. Odijk, and S. Piperidis,
Eds.
Marseille,
France:
European
Language
Resources
Association, Jun. 2022, pp. 7314–7320. [Online]. Available:
https://aclanthology.org/2022.lrec-1.795/
[14] A. A. Attia, D. Demszky, T. Ogunremi, J. Liu, and C. Espy-
Wilson,
“Continued pretraining for domain adaptation of
wav2vec2. 0 in automatic speech recognition for elementary math
classroom settings,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.13018, 2024.
[15] T. Rolland and A. Abad, “Exploring adapters with conformers for
children’s automatic speech recognition,” in ICASSP 2024-2024
IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2024, pp. 12 747–12 751.
[16] R. Fan and A. Alwan, “Draft: A novel framework to reduce do-
main shifting in self-supervised learning and its application to
children’s asr,” in INTERSPEECH, 2022.
[17] W. Liu, Y. Qin, Z. Peng, and T. Lee, “Sparsely shared lora
on whisper for child speech recognition,” in ICASSP 2024-2024
IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2024, pp. 11 751–11 755.
[18] R. Fan, N. B. Shankar, and A. Alwan, “Benchmarking children’s
asr with supervised and self-supervised speech foundation mod-
els,” in INTERSPEECH, 2022.
[19] A. A. Attia, J. Liu, W. Ai, D. Demszky, and C. Espy-Wilson,
“Kid-whisper: Towards bridging the performance gap in auto-
matic speech recognition for children vs. adults,” in Proceedings
of the AAAI/ACM Conference on AI, Ethics, and Society, vol. 7,
2024, pp. 74–80.
[20] R. Duan and N. F. Chen, “Senone-aware adversarial multi-task
training for unsupervised child to adult speech adaptation,” in
ICASSP 2021-2021 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics,
Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2021, pp. 7758–
7762.
[21] R. Duan and N. Chen, “Unsupervised feature adaptation using ad-
versarial multi-task training for automatic evaluation of children’s
speech,” in INTERSPEECH, 2020.
[22] D. Wang, E. Shelhamer, S. Liu, B. Olshausen, and T. Darrell,
“Tent:
Fully test-time adaptation by entropy minimization,”
in
International
Conference
on
Learning
Representations,
2021. [Online]. Available:
https://openreview.net/forum?id=
uXl3bZLkr3c
[23] G.-T. Lin, S.-W. Li, and H.-y. Lee, “Listen, adapt, better wer:
Source-free single-utterance test-time adaptation for automatic
speech recognition,” in INTERSPEECH, 2022.
[24] C. Kim, J. Park, H. Shim, and E. Yang, “Sgem: Test-time adapta-
tion for automatic speech recognition via sequential-level gener-
alized entropy minimization,” in INTERSPEECH, 2023.
[25] V. Panayotov, G. Chen, D. Povey, and S. Khudanpur, “Lib-
rispeech: an asr corpus based on public domain audio books,”
in 2015 IEEE international conference on acoustics, speech and
signal processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2015, pp. 5206–5210.
[26] W. Ward, R. Cole, and S. Pradhan, “My science tutor and the myst
corpus,” Boulder Learning Inc, 2019.
[27] B. McFee, C. Raffel, D. Liang, D. P. Ellis, M. McVicar, E. Bat-
tenberg, and O. Nieto, “librosa: Audio and music signal analysis
in python.” in SciPy, 2015, pp. 18–24.
[28] S. Holm, “A simple sequentially rejective multiple test proce-
dure,” Scandinavian journal of statistics, pp. 65–70, 1979.
[29] S. Team, “Silero vad: pre-trained enterprise-grade voice activity
detector (vad), number detector and language classifier,” https://
github.com/snakers4/silero-vad, 2024.
2824

