Accessible Real-time Eye-gaze Tracking for Neurocognitive Health
Assessment: A Multimodal Web-based Approach
Daniel Tisdale1,2, Jackson Liscombe1, David Paulter1, Michael Neumann1, Vikram
Ramanarayanan1,3
1Modality.AI, Inc., San Francisco, USA
2California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo, USA
3University of California, San Francisco, USA
v@modality.ai
Abstract
We introduce a novel integration of real-time predictive eye-
gaze tracking models into a scalable cloud-based multimodal
dialogue system tailored for remote health assessments. A vir-
tual human guide, Tina, interacted with 10 participants with
Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and 29 healthy controls dur-
ing a crowdsourced pilot study. She engaged participants in
an approximately 10-minute interview with 11 interactive eye-
gaze tasks, ranging from simple free gaze exploration to more
specialized directed gaze tasks. We found that metrics of eye-
gaze dynamics and reaction times extracted from these tasks,
combined with an Adaboost classifier effectively differentiates
MCI participants from healthy adults, with an average accuracy
of 0.94. Furthermore, over 80% of participants reported high
engagement and liked the user experience with the platform,
across demographics and internet connections, demonstrating
its robustness and scalability for real world use.
Index Terms: eye-gaze tracking, remote health monitoring,
multimodal health assessments, Mild Cognitive Impairment,
Mild Neurocognitive Disorder
1. Introduction
Eye-gaze tracking has emerged as a valuable method for de-
tecting and monitoring neurological disorders due to the close
anatomical proximity between the optical nerve and the brain
[1]. However, existing research predominantly relies on expen-
sive, specialized equipment within tightly controlled settings,
rendering these standards impractical and unsustainable for ev-
eryday health tracking. To address this, recent advancements
in remote video technology, accelerated by the COVID-19 pan-
demic, have made high-quality webcam feeds more affordable
and ubiquitous. In this study, we explore the feasibility of us-
ing conventional computer and laptop webcams for eye-gaze
tracking in a remote healthcare setting, aiming to bridge the gap
between clinical precision and practicality.
Additionally, breakthroughs in real-time machine learn-
ing within web browsers have enabled real-time gaze track-
ing. Coupled with developments in multimodal dialogue agents
for healthcare applications, an exciting opportunity arises: a
multimodal dialogue system that incorporates eye-gaze track-
ing for health assessments. Leveraging clinically proven ocular-
motor exercises adapted as real-time browser tasks, we conduct
a crowdsourced patient study involving individuals with Mild
Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and healthy controls. By analyz-
ing patients’ gaze patterns during interactions with our aug-
mented multimodal callflow, we extract valuable features and
metrics for health assessment. Our system, designed to assist
remote and accessible health assessments, holds promise not
only for MCI but also as a potential approach for other neuro-
logical disorders. Through this innovative approach, we aim to
alleviate barriers to identification and tracking, ultimately facil-
itating thorough screenings and specialized treatment plans for
patients with neurological conditions.
2. Related Work
2.1. Conversational Remote Health Assessment
We leverage and build upon the Modality cloud-based con-
versational platform for remote patient assessment and moni-
toring [2, 3], the utility which has been demonstrated across
multiple neurological and mental health disorders, including
ALS [4], Parkinson’s disease [5], autism [6], schizophrenia [7],
depression [8] and MCI [9]. A friendly virtual human, Tina,
guides participants through a conversational interaction com-
prising several speaking and cognitive exercises, during which
their speech and video data is recorded and relevant biomark-
ers extracted therefrom. These biomarkers can be visualized on
an intuitive dashboard for in-depth analysis. The conversational
protocol can be adapted to the specific neurological condition
being assessed, incorporating tasks such as oral motor exami-
nations, speech assessments, fine motor exercises and memory
recall tasks.
2.2. Eye-gaze Tracking for Healthcare
The medial longitudinal fasciculus, a critical neuronal structure
coordinating eye movements, is susceptible to early manifesta-
tions of neurocognitive disorders. Eye tracking holds promise
for identifying and monitoring such conditions. Historically,
eye tracking research has relied on specialized hardware in con-
trolled environments. Studies, including [10], demonstrate eye
tracking’s accuracy in distinguishing Parkinson’s disease from
controls and assessing ADHD and fetal alcohol spectrum disor-
der. [1] and [11] further explore eye-gaze features, emphasizing
their potential as non-invasive biomarkers for cognitive health.
More recently, WebGazer [12, 13], an online eye-gaze
tracker, leverages Tensorflow.js and Facemesh for real-time
gaze estimation using webcam feeds without the aid of special-
ized equipment [14, 15]. Additionally, smartphone-based eye-
gaze tracking, as explored by Valliappan et al. (2020), demon-
strates high precision (mean error of approximately 0.50±0.03
cm in-person on a phone screen) despite not being real-time.
The ongoing pursuit of real-time capabilities marks a signifi-
cant milestone in democratizing eye-gaze tracking for accessi-
bility [16]. Leveraging WebGazer’s robust pretrained model,
our gaze estimation system prioritizes frontend-based architec-
ture, webcam tracking, and ease of browser development.
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
3060
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-2322

3. System
To create an environment for online eye tracking for health as-
sessments, we adapted and integrated WebGazer into our ex-
isting multimodal dialog platform. Although Webgazer excels
at live gaze estimations and can be deployed on the frontend
of browsers through TensorflowJS, it relies on the location of a
participants’ mouse cursor to estimate the most probable gaze
point on screen [12, 13]. We replicated and matched the error
rates of the original WebGazer paper at approximately 180 px
while running concurrently with the multimodal dialogue sys-
tem. The error rates along the x-axis being notably less than on
the y-axis (x-axis error upper-bound: 11%, y-axis upper-bound:
21%). These error rates informed many user-interface design
decisions involving size and spacing, with most objects being
set at least 200 pixels apart and images being displayed at a
large enough size to where points of interest are approximately
200 pixels apart. Other key findings being carried into this work
is the need to include a manual calibration stage at the beginning
of calls where the user is asked to click circles around the screen
for a certain number of times each while looking directly at the
circle they are clicking. Following this step, we block cursor
data to the WebGazer model to allow for higher accessibility
while engaging participants in interactive tasks guided by au-
dio prompts from the conversational agent. This combination
of calibration and continued interaction allows eye-gaze predic-
tions to maintain accuracy over long call durations.
We chose tasks from the literature that have been demon-
strated to elicit eye-gaze behavior (and corresponding metrics)
that are discriminative of neurological disease. The tasks, in
order of presentation to the participant, are as follows:
1. Calibration Task. Users find and click buttons on the edge
of the browser window (this helps calibrate relative eye po-
sitions to the limits of the edges of the screen). The last 500
frames of data are reported as one segment to maintain uni-
formity between calls and minimize data usage.
2. Extreme Saccade Task. Users begin with exaggerated looks
as far left and right as possible, then are prompted to repeat
the movements of looking back and forth as quickly as they
can while keeping their head still (no stimulus on screen for
this task). The task is reported as one continuous segment.
3. Smooth Pursuit Task. Users follow a small circle on screen
moving smoothly and slowly in a predetermined path (hor-
izontal line and circular path) across the screen using gaze.
In the Horizontal Line subtask, starting from the center, the
circle moves to the left edge of the screen, moves to the right
edge, then returns to the center to complete a cycle. The task
consists of 3 cycles, with each one being recorded as a sepa-
rate subtask. The Circle subtask (see figure 1a) starts above
the center of the screen at a 12 o’clock location and follows
a clockwise path around the center of the screen, complet-
ing a revolution when reaching its original position. The task
consists of 3 with revolutions, each one being recorded as a
separate subtask.
4. Saccade Task. Users find and hold their gaze on objects as
they appear for 3 seconds, disappear, and appear at differ-
ent positions on screen. The locations of the objects appear
random, but are predetermined and in a set order to maintain
uniformity between calls. Each saccade to a new object on
screen, 8 in total, are recorded separately.
5. Stroop Task. In the Congruent Stroop variant, users read a
list of colors in which the text and their colors match within
a certain time limit. In the Incongruent Strop variant, users
read a list of colors in which the text and their colors are
mismatched within a certain time limit (see 1b).
6. Image Exploration Task. In the Directed Image Exploration
subtask, users are prompted to find and hold their gaze on 3
different objects within the image under a certain time limit,
one at a time. Each search and saccade attempt is recorded
separately. In the Free Image Exploration version, users are
prompted to freely scan and look at an image for a period of
time (see figure 1c).
4. Methods
4.1. Data
We conducted a crowdsourced observational study in which
healthy controls and patients, as determined by self-reports their
neurological health, engaged with our system.
Sessions
Control
MCI
All
Partial
29
10
39
Complete
27
8
35
Table 1: Crowdsourced Study Population
(a) Smooth Pursuit Circle Task Example
(b) Incongruent Stroop Task Example
(c) Image Exploration Task Example
Figure 1: Examples of 3 assessment protocol tasks
3061

Metric
Number of Subtasks
Total Metrics
Displacement
20
180
Velocity
20
180
Acceleration
20
180
Distance from Stimulus
13
130
Time to Target
13
117
# of Times on Target
13
39
Total Time on Target
13
117
Overall
112
943
Table 2: Overview of metrics computed from Euclidean coordi-
nates of estimated eye gaze, including mean, median, max and
standard deviation statistics (for tasks involving a specific stim-
ulus/target, metrics were computed against that target only).
4.2. Preprocessing
The data stream obtained after study completion—comprising
raw video, facial landmarks, audio, survey demographics, and
gaze data—was separated to focus exclusively on the analysis of
gaze data. To streamline the dataset, we combined all subtasks
into their respective task, preserving the flexibility to examine
individual subtasks for future analysis if deemed necessary. We
then labeled each participant and documented the number of
tasks they completed. Noting that with the subtask structure of
the callflow, we can use incomplete calls for training and testing
as long as we have collected a certain amount of eye-gaze data
from the sessions.
To ensure consistency across the dataset, and accounting for
variations in user window sizes and potential resizing during
tasks, we employed a the following normalization process for
the predicted gaze data. This approach was pivotal in unifying
the data, thereby facilitating a robust analysis of gaze patterns
across diverse user interactions.
1. Fitting: The maximum window width and height for that
task are taken, and all points are treated to be within the limits
of these dimensions.
2. Normalizing: Using the maximum window dimensions dur-
ing that task, all gaze points are converted to be between [0,
1] for both the x-axis and y-axis.
3. Smoothing:
All points are then run through a Sav-
itzky–Golay (Savgol) filter with a window of 3 points and a
polynomial order of 2. This helps eliminate extreme outliers
while maintaining jittery movements which can be exhibited
by users with motor impairments.
4. Saccade Segmentation: For tasks with stimuli (even those
not designed for saccade movements), windows of gaze his-
tory in which the predicted gaze moves towards and stays on
a stimulus (Time to target and Time on target) are segmented
for additional metrics.
4.3. Metrics
Seeking to create robust and adaptable gaze tracking metrics,
we aimed to develop generic measures that could be applied
across a wide range of healthcare applications, extending be-
yond specific task or timing constraints.
While deep learn-
ing models such as Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs), Long
Short-Term Memory (LSTM) networks, Convolutional Neural
Networks (CNNs), or Transformers are well-suited for time se-
ries data, our focus is towards human-interpretable classifica-
tions using quantitative data. Given the scarcity of data and
the desire for transparent insights, we opted to derive metrics
from easily understandable features, avoiding the complexity of
“black box” deep learning models (although we acknowledge
their potential for future enhancements).
As part of our generic metric suite applicable to all tasks,
we computed velocities and accelerations for the x and y axes,
along with absolute Euclidean values of velocities and acceler-
ations for the predicted gaze points. Specifically, we analyzed
the mean, median, maximum, and standard deviation of these
metrics. For tasks involving targets (such as gaze fixation on
specific points), we extended our analysis to include x, y, and
Euclidean distances from the target. Again, we leveraged the
mean, median, maximum, and standard deviation to summarize
these distance metrics. Furthermore, we quantified the mean
squared errors for each list of targets, providing a comprehen-
sive assessment of gaze prediction accuracy. Finally, to capture
temporal aspects and saccade-related metrics, we devised spe-
cific measures applicable to all tasks with targets, such as: Time
to target, Time on target, Times on target. Note that with these
generic metrics, each user has the number of tasks times the
number of metrics, resulting in a large number of features com-
pared to the population.
5. Analyses and Results
5.1. Prediction Error vs. Errors from MCI
Figure 2: Average Gaze vs. Stimulus Location (Smooth Pursuit
Circle Task)
Using the smooth pursuit tasks as ground truth for gaze lo-
cation of healthy controls in the crowdsourced study, we were
able to estimate upper-bounds for our gaze prediction error to be
at 14.7% on the x-axis and 18.3% on the y-axis among healthy
controls. Users with MCI had an observed estimated error of
15.3% for the x-axis and 19.3% for the y-axis under the same
methodology (average window size: 1332 x 820 px). Although
the error between the cohorts were similar, visualizations of the
tested tasks indicate distinct trends, as seen in fig. 2 with MCI
participants’ being off phase of the revolving circle. This and
similar insights underscore the need for a nuanced understand-
ing of the sources of error in gaze prediction.
5.2. Feature Selection
The significant number of features in comparison to the popula-
tion size necessitated dimensionality reduction. To address this,
we explored different feature selection methods. Initially, we
employed Principal Component Analysis (PCA) [17]. The lin-
earization of the data emerged as an effective exploratory step,
streamlining features for subsequent classification tasks. How-
ever, as our accuracy levels improved, we encountered limi-
tations associated with PCA. Notably, PCA assumes that all
dimensions are independent, which can lead to overfitting is-
sues when dealing with related features. One potential solu-
tion is parametric bootstrapping, although this approach intro-
duces scalability concerns for future applications [18]. Addi-
tionally, alternative techniques like Principal Component Re-
gression (PCR) allow for further analysis and reduction of com-
ponents [19].
Despite these options, the fundamental inter-
3062

pretability challenge posed by PCA components remains, as
their analysis lacks intuitive clarity.
To improve the interpretability of our data, we posit that the
mean and distribution shape of gaze features between cohorts
are different (and potentially non-normal), potentially helping
with each cohort’s respective categorization. But there are lim-
itations in using a non-ordinal and categorical approach to the
data. Although this approach allows for further expansion into
examining additional disorders and/or impairments, it limits the
scope of future research by collapsing the wide spectrum of
NCD patients into discrete, non-ordinal groups.
To approach this hypothesis, we perform Kruskal-Wallis
tests, with the null hypothesis being that the mean of the dis-
tributions between cohorts are the same [20]. This analytical
process yields p-values for each feature, outlining the statistical
significance of these features in deviating from the null hypoth-
esis and revealing distinctive features that exhibit different dis-
tributions across cohorts. Using these p-values, we group and
observe the most distinctive features under this methodology.
Notably, the most characteristic metrics (p-value ≤0.01; 13
features) were max and standard deviations of distances, veloc-
ities, and accelerations; the mean and median values of the met-
rics being more moderately significant (p-value ≤0.05; 30 fea-
tures) with time on target and time to target also being included
in this group. Similar to the correlation ranking approach, the
most indicative tasks were saccade-based ones but with a higher
skew towards free exploration tasks and with the smooth pursuit
tasks also being moderately significant as well.
5.3. Classification
After dimensional reduction, feature ranking, and p-value
grouping, we performed multiple methods of binary classifica-
tion on various subsets of the features generated using the above
approaches. We further used Kruskal-Wallis tests to select fea-
tures that demonstrated statistically-significant differences be-
tween MCI and healthy controls. We used the following clas-
sifiers: Baseline (majority vote), Nearest Neighbors, Linear
SVM, RBF SVM, Gaussian Process, Decision Tree, Random
Forest, Neural Net, AdaBoost, and Naive Bayes [21]. Due to
the small sample size of the study, we measured the average
accuracy over k-fold (k = smallest class size) cross validation.
The best performance for PCA was on completed sessions us-
ing an AdaBoost classifier with 50-estimators with an accuracy
of 0.89 (F1 Score = 0.67) over a baseline of 0.77.
Best
Classifier
Max
p-val
Baseline
Accuracy
Average
Accuracy
Average
F1
All
Sessions
Naive
Bayes
0.01
0.74
0.88
0.70
Completed
Sessions
Adaboost 0.01
0.77
0.94
0.85
Table 3: Best performing classifier (after Kruskal-Wallis feature
selection)
Our experiments suggest that AdaBoost classifiers perform
best using these features. Although not as intuitive as many
other classifiers tested, AdaBoost classifiers can be “human
understandable” when decomposed into its subcomponents of
small trees or “stumps.”
Last but not least, qualitative post-call surveys 3 demon-
strated that 82% of participants reported both high engagement
and high performance (rating ≥4 on a 5-point Likert scale from
1-Least Satisfactory to 5-Most Satisfactory) while interacting
Figure 3: Results of post-call usability surveys (N = 39; higher
ratings reflects better engagement and performance levels)
with the system. This is important as in addition to high per-
formance, a robust user-experience is a crucial factor impacting
the design and practical adoption of assessment systems in the
real world.
6. Discussion
This paper introduces the first end-to-end multimodal dialog
system that employs conventional webcam video input for eye-
tracking to facilitate remote health assessments via the web. Our
implementation seamlessly integrates predictive eye-gaze as a
novel modality within a cloud-based remote multimodal health
system, and is robust, cost-effective and highly scalable. By
capturing synchronized data from various user input modes, we
break down information efficiently and implement safeguards
against errors or missing data. Notably, this synchronized data
not only allows for extended multimodal fusion models, future
re-analysis through call recreation, but also holds promise for
training new eye-gaze models using webcam data – an impor-
tant avenue for future work towards improving existing model
performance. Minimizing cursor usage and relying on machine-
translated audio prompts enhance accessibility and enable con-
sistent monitoring for longitudinal studies, which could offer
deeper insights into conditions’ etiology and progression. We
observed the benefits of these engineering and software archi-
tecture choices reflected in user experience (UX) surveys of our
participants, who overwhelmingly rated the system as being en-
gaging and performing well overall. Finally, we demonstrated
that a comprehensive set of eye gaze tracking features computed
using such a system produced excellent classification perfor-
mance at discriminating patients with mild cognitive impair-
ment (MCI) from healthy controls. Importantly, our research
prioritizes interpretability, ensuring healthcare professionals in-
tuitively grasp eye-gaze patterns’ neurocognitive implications.
That being said, there are some limitations to the current
work that provide avenues for future exploration. For example,
we did not consider deep learning architectures for our classifi-
cation experiments, for two reasons. The first is the relatively
small sample size of the MCI cohort. While small sample sizes
are typical of such studies in the healthcare domain, they are
nonetheless insufficient to train competitive deep learning mod-
els. Future work will investigate the performance of this system
on larger sample sizes and a more diverse array of neurological,
neurocognitive and neurodevelopmental disorders. The second
is interpretability, as mentioned earlier – today’s deep learning
models are still largely black boxes, and healthcare domains
require models that are explainable. That being said, there is
plenty of ongoing research on making these models more ex-
plainable, and future research will investigate how we can lever-
age the power of such methods to push classification accuracies
without compromising clinical interpretability.
3063

7. References
[1] M. Vidal, J. Turner, A. Bulling, and H. Gellersen, “Wearable eye
tracking for mental health monitoring,” Computer Communica-
tions, vol. 35, no. 11, pp. 1306–1311, Jun. 2012.
[2] V. Ramanarayanan, “Multimodal technologies for remote assess-
ment of neurological and mental health,” Journal of Speech, Lan-
guage, and Hearing Research, vol. 67, no. 11, pp. 4233–4245,
2024.
[3] V. Ramanarayanan, D. Pautler, L. Arbatti, A. Hosamath, M. Neu-
mann, H. Kothare, O. Roesler, J. Liscombe, A. Cornish, D. Hab-
berstad et al., “When words speak just as loudly as actions: Vir-
tual agent based remote health assessment integrating what pa-
tients say with what they do,” in Proc. Interspeech, vol. 2023,
2023, pp. 678–679.
[4] M. Neumann, H. Kothare, and V. Ramanarayanan, “Multimodal
speech biomarkers for remote monitoring of als disease progres-
sion,” Computers in Biology and Medicine, vol. 180, p. 108949,
2024.
[5] H. Kothare, M. Neumann, J. Liscombe, O. Roesler, W. Burke,
A. Exner, S. Snyder, A. Cornish, D. Habberstad, D. Pautler,
D. Suendermann-Oeft, J. Huber, and V. Ramanarayanan, “Statis-
tical and clinical utility of multimodal dialogue-based speech and
facial metrics for Parkinson’s disease assessment,” in Proceedings
of Interspeech 2022, Incheon, Korea, September 2022, pp. 3658–
3662.
[6] H. Kothare, V. Ramanarayanan, M. Neumann, J. Liscombe,
V. Richter, L. Lampinen, A. Bai, C. Preciado, K. Brogan, and
C. Demopoulos, “Vocal and facial behavior during affect produc-
tion in autism spectrum disorder,” Journal of Speech, Language,
and Hearing Research, vol. 68, no. 2, pp. 419–434, 2025.
[7] V. Richter, M. Neumann, H. Kothare, O. Roesler, J. Liscombe,
D. Suendermann-Oeft, S. Prokop, A. Khan, C. Yavorsky, J.-P.
Lindenmayer et al., “Towards multimodal dialog-based speech &
facial biomarkers of schizophrenia,” in Companion Publication
of the 2022 International Conference on Multimodal Interaction,
2022, pp. 171–176.
[8] J. Cohen, V. Richter, M. Neumann, D. Black, A. Haq, J. Wright-
Berryman, and V. Ramanarayanan, “A multimodal dialog ap-
proach to mental state characterization in clinically depressed,
anxious, and suicidal populations,” Frontiers in psychology,
vol. 14, p. 1135469, 2023.
[9] A. McGarry, O. Roesler, J. Liscombe, M. Neumann, H. Kothare,
A. Hosamath, L. Arbatti, A. Badathala, S. Ruhmel, B. J. Hansen
et al., “Much more than the malady: The promise of a web-based
digital platform incorporating self-report for research and clini-
cal care in mild cognitive impairment,” Mayo Clinic Proceedings:
Digital Health, p. 100224, 2025.
[10] P.-H. Tseng, I. G. M. Cameron, G. Pari, J. N. Reynolds, D. P.
Munoz, and L. Itti, “High-throughput classification of clinical
populations from natural viewing eye movements,” J Neurol, vol.
260, no. 1, pp. 275–284, Aug. 2012.
[11] A. Wolf and K. Ueda, “Contribution of Eye-Tracking to study
cognitive impairments among clinical populations,” Front Psy-
chol, vol. 12, p. 590986, Jun. 2021.
[12] A. Papoutsaki, P. Sangkloy, J. Laskey, N. Daskalova, J. Huang,
and J. Hays, “WebGazer: Scalable webcam eye tracking using
user interactions,” in Proceedings of the 25th International Joint
Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-16).
AAAI, 2016,
pp. 3839–3845.
[13] A. Papoutsaki, J. Laskey, and J. Huang, “Searchgazer: Webcam
eye tracking for remote studies of web search,” in Proceedings of
the 2017 conference on conference human information interaction
and retrieval, 2017, pp. 17–26.
[14] D. Smilkov, N. Thorat, Y. Assogba, C. Nicholson, N. Kreeger,
P. Yu, S. Cai, E. Nielsen, D. Soegel, S. Bileschi et al., “Tensorflow.
js: Machine learning for the web and beyond,” Proceedings of
Machine Learning and Systems, vol. 1, pp. 309–321, 2019.
[15] C. Lugaresi, J. Tang, H. Nash, C. McClanahan, E. Uboweja,
M. Hays, F. Zhang, C.-L. Chang, M. Yong, J. Lee et al., “Me-
diapipe: A framework for perceiving and processing reality,” in
Third workshop on computer vision for AR/VR at IEEE computer
vision and pattern recognition (CVPR), vol. 2019, 2019.
[16] N. Valliappan, N. Dai, E. Steinberg, J. He, K. Rogers, V. Ra-
machandran, P. Xu, M. Shojaeizadeh, L. Guo, K. Kohlhoff et al.,
“Accelerating eye movement research via accurate and affordable
smartphone eye tracking,” Nature communications, vol. 11, no. 1,
p. 4553, 2020.
[17] A. Ma´ckiewicz and W. Ratajczak,
“Principal components
analysis (pca),” Computers
Geosciences, vol. 19, no. 3, pp.
303–342, 1993. [Online]. Available: https://www.sciencedirect.
com/science/article/pii/009830049390090R
[18] S. M. S. Lee, “Optimal choice between parametric and non-
parametric bootstrap estimates,” Mathematical Proceedings of the
Cambridge Philosophical Society, vol. 115, no. 2, p. 335–363,
1994.
[19] W. F. Massy, “Principal components regression in exploratory
statistical research,” Journal of the American Statistical Asso-
ciation, vol. 60, no. 309, pp. 234–256, 1965. [Online]. Avail-
able:
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/01621459.
1965.10480787
[20] W. H. Kruskal and W. A. Wallis, “Use of ranks in one-
criterion variance analysis,” Journal of the American Statistical
Association,
vol. 47,
no. 260,
pp. 583–621,
1952. [On-
line]. Available:
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/
01621459.1952.10483441
[21] G. Varoquaux, A. M¨uller, and J. Grobler, “Classifier compar-
ison,” https://scikit-learn.org/stable/auto examples/classification/
plot classifier comparison.html, n.d., accessed: 2023-3-4.
3064
