Semantic Processing During Spoken Word Production by Children with 
Cochlear Implants 
Man Wang1, Yixin Ding1, Niels O. Schiller2 
1 School of Foreign Languages, Qingdao University, Qingdao, China 
2 Department of Linguistics and Translation, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR 
manwang@qdu.edu.cn, iseny_yixind@163.com, niels.schiller@cityu.edu.hk 
 
 
Abstract 
Research that investigates the speech production of children 
with cochlear implants (CIs) mostly focuses on the 
characteristics of their speech sounds. Few studies have looked 
at the psycholinguistic processes during speech production of 
children with CI. Our study examines the semantic processing 
during speech production of this group of speakers, compared 
to their normal hearing (NH) peers. Using the picture-word 
interference 
paradigm, 
we 
manipulated 
the 
semantic 
relatedness between target picture names and distractor words. 
We observed the typical semantic interference effect in the NH 
group but not in the CI group, suggesting that the semantic 
network may be organized differently in the CI group than in 
their NH peers and the CI group may have difficulties accessing 
the semantic categories. Furthermore, our results are in line 
with the suggestion that the CI group may rely more on a top-
down strategy or attentional cognitive processing than a 
bottom-up semantic activation. 
Index Terms: speech production, semantics, children with 
cochlear implants, psycholinguistics 
1. Introduction 
1.1. Semantic Processing of Children with CIs 
Hearing impairment is one of the main causes of spoken 
language delay and deficits in children’s development of 
language skills [1]. Cochlear implants (CIs), especially early CI 
implantation, can largely facilitate children with language 
impairments to develop language skills comparable to their 
normal hearing (NH) peers. Nevertheless, the hearing 
impairment before the CI implantation causes less optimal 
hearing and will still prevent children with CIs from reaching 
age-equivalent language capabilities resulting in deviance from 
their NH peers [2]. 
Empirical 
studies 
have 
made 
use 
of 
behavioral 
measurements of language development in children with CIs 
post implantation, and most examinations employ batteries of 
language tests (e.g., Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test, PPTV, 
Mean Length of Utterance, MLU) [3, 4]. Although these 
standardized tests are effective in examining the language 
capabilities of children with CIs, they are not sufficient to reveal 
the reasons behind the characteristics of the language 
development of children with CIs. For instance, battery tests 
show children with CIs are delayed in vocabulary development 
[5], but it is unknown whether the poor lexical representation or 
the phonological deficit attributes to the delay [6]. 
Attempts have been made to investigate the underlying 
mechanisms of language production in children with CIs and 
their findings suggest a deficit in semantic network 
development. For instance, children with CIs performed poorer 
in semantic verbal fluency task (e.g., to name as many objects 
as possible within a time limit) compared to the age- and IQ- 
matched group of NH peers, and were less efficient in accessing 
semantic categories than NH peers [7]. Still, their poorer 
performances could be attributed either to a poorer semantic 
representation development or to a deficit accessing the 
semantic representation during language production. 
In the attempt to tease apart these two possibilities, 
evidence for a poorer semantic representation development has 
been found. By using a timed verbal fluency task, correlation 
and network analyses showed that children with CIs seemed to 
have a less-developed semantic network structure compared to 
their NH peers [6]. 
Later studies have made use of electrophysiological 
measurements to investigate semantic processing during 
spoken language processing [8]. These studies specifically 
looked at the amplitude and latency the event-related potential 
(ERP) component N400, which usually reflects semantic 
processing [9]. While the study with auditory stimuli found the 
typical N400 effect in the CI group at 18 and 24 months after 
implantation comparable to the NH group [10], studies with 
visual stimuli usually observed stronger N400 effects, despite 
lower semantic abilities, in the CI group compared to the NH 
group (see [8] for a review). Additionally, ERP differences 
were observed in an earlier P2 time window between the CI and 
NH groups, suggesting differences in the attentional and/or 
strategic processing that may impact semantic processing 
between groups. As suggested by [8], children with CIs may 
rely more on top-down processing as a compensatory strategy 
than on bottom-up language processing, therefore showing 
stronger N400 effects. 
Although great progress has been made in the investigation 
of semantic processing in children with CIs, the implications 
are limited due to the small number of samples and limited 
studies that focus on the mechanisms of semantic processing 
instead of semantic performance. In addition, studies that use 
experimental tasks usually look at semantic processing during 
language comprehension process instead of language 
production. 
1.2. Semantic Processing in Language Production of 
Children with CIs 
A speaker needs to go through several major stages before 
successfully 
articulating 
a 
single 
word. 
Different 
psycholinguistics models of speech production generally agree 
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
843
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1455

on the following stages of speech production: conceptual 
preparation where semantic processing takes place, lemma 
level where the lexico-syntactic information is processed, 
word-form encoding level where the phonological form of the 
word is encoded, and finally articulation (e.g., WEAVER++ 
model) [11, 12]. 
To 
study 
semantic 
processing, 
the 
picture-word 
interference paradigm has been widely used. In this paradigm, 
a participant is asked to name a target picture with a 
superimposed distractor on the picture. If the distractor (e.g., 
dog) is semantically related to the target picture (e.g., cat), it 
usually interferes the picture naming resulting in longer naming 
latencies, compared to an unrelated condition [14, 15]. The 
semantic relatedness here refers to belonging to the same 
semantic category. The semantic interference effect observed 
with the paradigm is considered to reflect the competition 
during lexical selection [16]. This is based on the assumption 
that words that belong to the same semantic category are 
connected stronger to each other in the semantic network and 
will be activated if neighbors in the network are activated. 
Previous research raises the question whether the lower 
semantic abilities of children with CIs are attributed to the 
underdeveloped semantic network or the deficit in accessing the 
semantic representation. The picture word interference 
paradigm can be a valuable tool to investigate this issue. 
Nevertheless, studies using this paradigm seem to show 
discrepant findings. Either no significant semantic interference 
was observed [17, 18, 19] or greater inhibition was shown with 
the CI group compared to a NH group (see a preliminary study 
[7]). Please note that in these former two studies where no 
significant semantic effect was observed, the distractor was 
presented auditorily, which may not have been salient enough 
to reveal any potential semantic effect. 
Therefore, the present study aims to investigate the 
semantic processing during speech production of children with 
CIs, in comparison with their NH peers. Specifically, by using 
the picture word interference paradigm, we examine semantic 
representations of words and semantic access in children with 
CIs. If the semantic network is developed equally well 
compared to their NH peers, a semantic interference effect is 
expected. If the semantic network is underdeveloped or 
semantic categories are not similarly formed compared to their 
NH peers, we may not observe any semantic interference in the 
CI group. 
2. Methods  
2.1. Participants 
A total of 20 children with hearing impairments (11 male, mean 
age = 10.9 years, SD = 3.24) from special education schools and 
20 normally hearing children (8 male, mean age = 10.1 years, 
SD = 2) participated in this experiment. All hearing-impaired 
children were pre-lingually deaf and had a cochlear implant 
before the age of three. They were all right-handed and had 
normal or corrected-to-normal vision and no history of 
neurological impairment. All participants were paid for their 
participation. 
These 40 children performed a test for nonverbal 
intelligence (Combined Raven’s Test; CRT), which provided a 
global estimation of their intelligence. From this test, we could 
conclude that the children with CIs performed within the range 
of normal intelligence. The two groups did not differ 
significantly in their CRT scores, t(38) = 0.742, p > .05. 
Audiological screening was conducted for hearing-
impaired children. Based on a questionnaire, participants who 
experienced prelingual hearing loss and those with a hearing 
loss of 70 dB or above were selected. 
2.2. Materials and Design 
Thirty black-and-white line drawings of common objects were 
selected from a standardized picture database [20]. All these 
pictures were combined with distractors. The distractors were 
selected based on their congruency with the target picture 
names in terms of semantic category. The factor had two levels: 
semantically related versus semantically unrelated. On each 
trial, pictures were presented with a distractor (from one of the 
two conditions) superimposed on the center of the picture. The 
distractors were not phonologically or orthographically related 
to the target picture names. The distractors in the two conditions 
were comparable in terms of word frequency (calculated with 
the log frequency of words in the SUBTLEX-CH database) [21] 
and visual complexity (number of strokes), ts < 2, ps > .05. 
Since we are interested in semantic processing, we choose 
a negative SOA value (i.e., -100 ms) where the semantic 
interference effect was widely observed in previous studies 
[22,23]. 
Table 1: An example of a target picture presented with 
distractor in each condition. Distractors either match or 
mismatch the semantic category of target picture name. 
2.3. Procedure 
The experiment was administered on the psychology software 
tool PyschoPy (v2023.1.3) on a Lenovo Thinkbook laptop. 
Participants were tested individually in a quiet room, where 
they were seated in front of a monitor at a distance of 
approximate 60 cm. They were asked to name the pictures as 
fast and as accurately as possible. Vocal response times were 
measured by a voice key connected to a microphone installed 
on the laptop. 
The 
experiment 
consisted 
of 
three 
sessions: 
a 
familiarization session, a practice session and an experimental 
session. 
In the familiarization session, each picture was presented 
once with its name underneath. Participants were requested to 
view the images and their names. 
In the practice session, each picture was presented once 
with “XX” superimposed on it and participants were asked to 
name the pictures with the correct names while ignoring the 
“XX” on the pictures. Responses that deviated from the names 
given in the familiarization session were corrected by the 
experimenter. 
In the experimental session, participants saw each of the 30 
pictures twice based on different combination of semantic 
conditions, resulting in 60 experimental trials per participant, 
which were presented in a pseudo-random order such that no 
 
Distractor Condition 
Target 
Picture 
Name 
Semantically 
related 
Semantically 
unrelated 
兔子
/tu4zi0/ 
rabbit 
刺猬 
/ci4wei4/ 
hedgehog 
照片 
/zhao4pian4/ 
photo 
844

two consecutive trials were from the same distractor condition. 
All trials were divided equally into 4 blocks with a short break 
in between (the length of the break was determined by the 
participant). On each trial, a fixation point (“+”) was presented 
for 300 ms, followed by a blank screen (200 ms), the target 
picture with distractor (displayed until the participant initiated 
a vocal response, with a 3 s time-out), followed by another 
blank screen (2 s) before the next trial began (Figure 1). 
 
Figure 1: Trial sequence in the experiment 
3. Results 
3.1. The CI Group 
For the CI group, 17.75% of all data points (2,400) comprising: 
(a) incorrect responses; (b) voice-key failures (the first two 
types were counted as errors; the error rate was 16.46%); (c) 
outliers (i.e., naming latencies exceeding 3 SDs above or below 
the participant’s mean; 3.75%) were removed from the 
behavioral data analysis. 
Figure 2: The mean naming latencies in the 
semantically related (S+) and unrelated (S-) 
conditions of the CI group. The error bars indicate the 
standard errors (SE) of each condition. 
A paired-sample t-test was conducted to compare the 
naming latencies between the semantically related and 
unrelated conditions. The naming latencies for the related 
condition (mean = 1,078 ms, SD = 307 ms) were not 
significantly different from the unrelated condition (mean = 
1,078 ms, SD = 300 ms), t(19) = .030, p > .05. The results 
suggest that in the group of children with CIs, there is no 
significant semantic interference effect during their speech 
production with the picture-word interference paradigm (Figure 
2). 
The error rates of the two distractor conditions were also 
submitted to paired-sample t-tests, and the participants in the CI 
group did not show significant differences between the 
semantically related (mean = 17.08%, SD = 7.19%) and 
unrelated conditions (mean = 18.42%, SD = 7.08%). 
3.2. The NH Group 
For the NH group, 15.29% of all data points (2,400), 
comprising: (a) incorrect responses; (b) voice-key failures (the 
first two types were counted as errors; the error rate was 
14.17%); (c) outliers (i.e., naming latencies exceeding 3 SDs 
above or below the participant’s mean; 5.17%) were removed 
from the behavioral data analysis. 
A paired-sample t-test was conducted to compare the 
naming latencies between the semantically related and 
unrelated conditions. The naming latencies for the related 
condition (mean = 1,333 ms, SD = 249 ms) were significantly 
slower than those from the unrelated condition (mean = 1,256 
ms, SD = 222 ms), t(19) = 3.98, p = .001 (two-tailed). The 
results suggest that in the NH group, there was a significant 
semantic interference effect during their speech production with 
the picture-word interference paradigm (Figure 3). 
Figure 3: The mean naming latencies in the 
semantically related (S+) and unrelated (S-) 
conditions of the NH group. The error bars indicate 
the standard errors (SE) of each condition. 
The error rates were also submitted to paired-sample t-tests, 
and the participants in the NH group seemed to make more 
errors in the semantically related condition (mean = 16.76%, 
SD = 8.54%) than in the semantically unrelated condition 
(mean = 13.83%, SD = 8.22%), but the difference did not reach 
significance, t(19) = 1.835, p = .082 (two-tailed). 
3.3. Post-hoc Analysis on the Group Difference 
The mean naming latencies of the two participant groups 
were submitted to independent-sample t-test as a post-hoc 
analysis to compare the group differences. The CI group 
generally responded faster (mean = 1,078 ms, SD = 301 ms) 
than the NH group (mean = 1,294 ms, SD = 232 ms), and the 
difference was significant, t(38) = -2.55, p = .015 (two-tailed). 
The error rates across the two groups were also submitted 
to an independent-sample t-test, but the difference between the 
CI group (mean = 17.75%, SD = 6.65%) and the NH group 
(mean = 15.29%, SD = 7.59%) was not significant, t(38) = 1.09, 
p > .05. 
4. Discussion 
The present study investigated the semantic processing during 
speech production in children with cochlear implants (CIs) 
845

compared to their normal hearing (NH) peers using the picture-
word interference paradigm. Results revealed a significant 
semantic interference effect in the NH group, where naming 
latencies were slower in the semantically related condition 
compared to the unrelated condition. However, no such effect 
was observed in the CI group, suggesting differences in the 
underlying mechanisms of semantic processing during speech 
production between the two groups. 
4.1. Semantic Processing in Children with CIs in 
Comparison with NH Peers 
As introduced in the Introduction, the poorer performances of 
children with CIs in semantic tasks could either be attributed to 
the underdevelopment of semantic networks or the poorer 
ability to access the semantic representations of words. The 
absence of a semantic interference effect in the CI group is more 
likely to align with previous research indicating that children 
with CIs may have underdeveloped semantic networks [7]. This 
is because the semantic interference effect is believed to be 
caused by the competition of semantically related words (i.e., 
the distractor) that are close to the target word in the semantic 
network at the stage of lexical retrieval [16]. The lack of 
interference could be attributed to weaker connections within 
the semantic network, which may not activate competing 
lexical items to the same extent as in NH children. 
Based on post-hoc analysis results that the CI group’s 
naming latencies were generally faster than those of the NH 
group while the error rates were comparable, it seemed that 
children with CIs could access the semantic representations of 
the target words as successfully and accurately as, and even 
faster than their NH peers. This finding supports the hypothesis 
that children with CIs may rely on different cognitive strategies, 
such as top-down processing, to compensate for deficits in 
bottom-up semantic activation [8]. In the current task, children 
with CIs may adopt more of the strategy to focus on the target 
picture and ignore the visually-presented distractor, and result 
in generally faster naming latencies and no semantic 
interference effect. 
In contrast, the NH group exhibited the typical semantic 
interference effect, consistent with prior studies using the 
picture-word interference paradigm with healthy adults [22, 
23]. The competition between semantically related lexical items 
during speech production reflects that children in the NH group 
have the semantic category knowledge and have developed 
semantic networks based on their semantic categories, at least 
of the tested words in the current study. 
Furthermore, the NH group’s naming latencies were 
generally slower than those of the CI group, could probably be 
attributed to the interference caused by the distractors. In 
addition, it could also reflect that compared to the CI group, the 
NH group may rely more on semantic activations of both target 
picture names and distractors, rather than putting an emphasis 
on the strategy to ignore the distractors. 
4.2. Implications for Language Development 
The findings have important implications for understanding 
the language development of children with CIs. The presence 
of this effect in the NH group but not in the CI group 
underscores the potential impact of early auditory deprivation 
on the development of semantic networks and lexical access. 
Specifically, while CIs provide access to auditory input, the 
quality and timing of this input may not fully compensate for 
the early auditory deprivation experienced by these children 
prior to the CI implantation. This could lead to differences in 
how lexical-semantic information is organized and accessed 
during speech production [6]. The results suggest that 
interventions aimed at improving semantic category knowledge 
and strengthening semantic networks may be beneficial for 
children with CIs. 
4.3. Limitations and Future Directions 
While the results of the current study can provide implications 
for the underlying mechanisms for the deficit in semantic 
processing of children with CIs, it is still unclear how the deficit 
in semantic network development is affected, or to what extent 
children with CIs rely on strategic processing in comparison to 
semantic processing in speech production. 
Therefore, studies with children with hearing impairments 
before CI implantation and longitudinal studies are needed to 
explore how semantic processing evolves over time in children 
with CIs and how early interventions might influence these 
developmental trajectories. Furthermore, additional tasks, such 
as semantic priming, verbal fluency, or cross-modal picture-
word interference tasks, could provide a more comprehensive 
understanding of semantic processing in children with CIs. 
5. Conclusion 
In conclusion, the present study provides evidence that children 
with CIs may process semantic information differently during 
speech production compared to their NH peers. The absence of 
a semantic interference effect in the CI group suggests potential 
deficits in semantic network development, especially semantic 
category acquisition. These findings highlight the need for 
targeted interventions to support the language development of 
children with CIs and underscore the importance of further 
research into the cognitive and linguistic mechanisms 
underlying their speech production. 
6. Acknowledgements 
We would like to express our sincere gratitude to all the 
children and their families who participated in this study. Their 
time and effort were invaluable to the success of this research. 
We also extend our thanks to the special education schools and 
staff for their support in recruiting participants and facilitating 
the data collection process. 
7. References 
[1] 
A. Hogan, M. Shipley, L. Strazdins, A. Purcell, and E. Baker, 
“Communication and behavioral disorders among children with 
hearing loss increases risk of mental health disorders,” Australian 
and New Zealand Journal of Public Health, vol. 35, no. 4, pp. 
377–383, Aug. 2011. 
[2] 
B. Schramm, A. Bohnert, and A. Keilmann, “Auditory, speech 
and language development in young children with cochlear 
implants compared with children with normal hearing,” 
International Journal of Pediatric Otorhinolaryngology, vol. 74, 
no. 7, pp. 812–819, Jul. 2010. 
[3] 
L. M. Dunn and L. M., Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test (3rd 
edn). Circle Pines: American Guidance Service, 1997. 
[4] 
P. J. Blamey et al., “Relationships among speech perception, 
production, language, hearing loss, and age in children with 
impaired hearing,” Journal of Speech, Language and Hearing 
Research, vol. 44, no. 2, pp. 264–285, Apr. 2001. 
[5] 
C. Ouellet, M.-T. Le Normand, and H. Cohen, “Language 
evolution in children with cochlear implants,” Brain and 
Cognition, vol. 46, no. 1–2, pp. 231–235, Jun. 2001. 
846

[6] 
Y. N. Kenett, D. Wechsler-Kashi, D. Y. Kenett, R. G. Schwartz, 
E. Ben-Jacob, and M. Faust, “Semantic organization in children 
with cochlear implants: computational analysis of verbal fluency,” 
Frontiers in Psychology, vol. 4, no. 543, pp. 1-11, Sep. 2013. 
[7] 
R. G. Schwartz, S. Steinman, E. Ying, E. Y. Mystal, and D. M. 
Houston, “Language processing in children with cochlear 
implants: A preliminary report on lexical access for production 
and comprehension,” Clinical Linguistics & Phonetics, vol. 27, 
no. 4, pp. 264–277, Mar. 2013. 
[8] 
P. Kallioinen, J. K. Olofsson, and C. Nakeva, “Semantic 
processing in children with Cochlear Implants: A review of 
current N400 studies and recommendations for future research,” 
Biological Psychology, vol. 182, no. 108655, pp. 1-12, Aug. 2023. 
[9] 
M. Kutas, and K. D. Federmeier, “Thirty years and counting: 
finding meaning in the N400 component of the event-related brain 
potential (ERP),” Annual Review of Psychology, vol. 62, no. 1, pp. 
621-647, Jan. 2021. 
[10] N. K. Vavatzanidis, D. Mürbe, A. D. Friederici, and A. Hahne, 
“Establishing a mental lexicon with cochlear implants: an ERP 
study with young children,” Scientific Reports, vol. 8, no. 910, 1-
13, Jan. 2018. 
[11] W. J. M. Levelt, A. Roelofs, and A. S. Meyer, “A theory of lexical 
access in speech production,” Behavioral and Brain Sciences, vol. 
22, no. 01, pp. 1-38, Feb. 1999. 
[12] A. Roelofs, “Self-Monitoring in Speaking: In Defense of a 
Comprehension-Based Account,” Journal of Cognition, vol. 3, no. 
1, pp. 1-13, Sep. 2020. 
[13] J. D. Jescheniak and H. Schriefers, “Discrete serial versus 
cascaded processing in lexical access in speech production: 
Further evidence from the coactivation of near-synonyms,” 
Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and 
Cognition, vol. 24, no. 5, pp. 1256–1274, 1998. 
[14] H. Schriefers, A. S. Meyer, and W. J. M. Levelt, “Exploring the 
time course of lexical access in language production: Picture-
word interference studies,” Journal of Memory and Language, vol. 
29, no. 1, pp. 86–102, Feb. 1990. 
[15] W. La Heij, “Components of Stroop-like interference in picture 
naming,” Memory & Cognition, vol. 16, no. 5, pp. 400–410, Sep. 
1988. 
[16] S. Jerger, L. Lai, and V. A. Marchman, “Picture Naming by 
Children with Hearing Loss: I. Effect of Semantically Related 
Auditory Distractors,” Journal of the American Academy of 
Audiology, vol. 13, no. 09, pp. 463–477, Oct. 2002. 
[17] S. Jerger, L. Lai, and V. A. Marchman, “Picture Naming by 
Children with Hearing Loss: II. Effect of Phonologically Related 
Auditory Distractors,” Journal of the American Academy of 
Audiology, vol. 13, no. 09, pp. 478–492, Oct. 2002. 
[18] B. E. de Hoog, M. C. Langereis, M. van Weerdenburg, H. E. T. 
Knoors, and L. Verhoeven, “Lexical access in children with 
hearing loss or language impairments, using the cross-modal 
picture-word interference paradigm,” Research in Developmental 
Disabilities, vol. 37, pp. 81–94, Feb. 2015. 
[19] J. G. Snodgrass and M. Vanderwart, “A standardized set of 260 
pictures: Norms for name agreement, image agreement, 
familiarity, and visual complexity,” Journal of Experimental 
Psychology: Human Learning and Memory, vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 174–
215, 1980. 
[20] Q. Cai and M. Brysbaert, “SUBTLEX-CH: Chinese Word and 
Character Frequencies Based on Film Subtitles,” PLoS ONE, vol. 
5, no. 6, e10729, Jun. 2010. 
[21] H. Schriefers, A. S. Meyer and W. J. M. Levelt, “Exploring the 
time course of lexical access in language production: Picture-
word interference studies,” Journal of Memory and Language, vol. 
29, no. 1, pp. 86–102, Jan. 1990. 
[22] M. Wang, Y. Chen, M. Jiang, and N. O. Schiller, “The time course 
of speech production revisited: No early orthographic effect, even 
in Mandarin Chinese,” Language, Cognition and Neuroscience, 
vol. 36, no. 1, pp. 13–24, 2021. 
847
