warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
Calm-Whisper: Reduce Whisper Hallucination On Non-Speech By Calming
Crazy Heads Down
Yingzhi Wang1, Anas Alhmoud1, Saad Alsahly1, Muhammad Alqurishi1, Mirco Ravanelli2,3
1Research Center, Elm Company, KSA
2Concordia University, Canada
3Mila, Canada
ywang@elm.sa, aalhmoud@elm.sa, salsahly@elm.sa, mualqurishi@elm.sa,
mirco.ravanelli@concordia.ca
Abstract
OpenAI’s Whisper has achieved significant success in Auto-
matic Speech Recognition. However, it has consistently been
found to exhibit hallucination issues, particularly in non-speech
segments, which limits its broader application in complex in-
dustrial settings.
In this paper, we introduce a novel method to reduce Whis-
per’s hallucination on non-speech segments without using any
pre- or post-possessing techniques. Specifically, we benchmark
the contribution of each self-attentional head in the Whisper-
large-v3 decoder to the hallucination problem by performing
a head-wise mask. Our findings reveal that only 3 of the 20
heads account for over 75% of the hallucinations on the Urban-
Sound dataset. We then fine-tune these three crazy heads using
a collection of non-speech data. The results show that our best
fine-tuned model, namely Calm-Whisper, achieves over 80%
reduction in non-speech hallucination with only less than 0.1%
WER degradation on LibriSpeech test-clean and test-other.
Index Terms: Whisper Hallucination, Calm-Whisper, Calm-
down Fine-tuning, Noise-Robust ASR
1. Introduction
OpenAI’s Whisper [1] has emerged as a significant milestone
in Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR), owing to its multi-
lingual capabilities, high transcription accuracy, and adaptabil-
ity to diverse acoustic environments.
The model is built on
a large-scale Transformer-based encoder-decoder architecture,
boasting billions of parameters that allow it to capture complex
details in speech signals. Whisper’s training leverages an ex-
tensive dataset comprising 680k hours of multilingual and mul-
titask speech data. The diversity of the dataset ensures that the
model can generalise effectively to different scenarios.
However, like many large-scale generative models, Whis-
per has been shown to exhibit hallucination issues, where it
generates text that is unrelated to the original audio input
[2, 3, 4, 5, 6].
These hallucinations, manifesting as fabri-
cated phrases or entire sentences, raise concerns about the re-
liability and fairness of ASR systems in real-world applications
[7]. Key factors contributing to Whisper’s hallucinations can
be categorized into three perspectives: model design, training
data quality, and input ambiguity [8].
Whisper’s large-scale
transformer-based architecture, while highly generative, can un-
intentionally generate plausible yet incorrect outputs, with its
auto-regressive nature further amplifying its hallucination ten-
dencies. The training corpus of Whisper includes weakly anno-
tated data that may be biased, imbalanced, or noisy, leading to
an increasing risk of hallucinations [7]. As a result, when the in-
put is noisy, unclear, or contains ambiguous contexts, Whisper
is highly prone to produce hallucinations.
Previous studies have explored Whisper’s hallucination
problem and offered potential solutions. In Careless-Whisper
[7], the authors highlight that approximately 1% of Whis-
per’s transcriptions contain hallucinated phrases or sentences
not present in the original audio. Notably, 38% of these hal-
lucinations include explicit harms such as perpetuating vio-
lence, making inaccurate associations, or implying false author-
ity. They also find that hallucinations disproportionately oc-
cur for individuals with speech impairments, like aphasia, es-
pecially when there are longer non-vocal durations in speech.
In Distil-Whisper [9], the authors used a simple word error
rate (WER) heuristic to select only the highest quality pseudo-
labels for training.
The study notes that Distil-Whisper is
less prone to hallucination errors on long-form audio com-
pared to the original Whisper model. WhisperX [10] proposes
pre-processing operations involving Voice Activity Detection
(VAD), and proves that these VAD operations reduce hallucina-
tion and repeating on the Kincaid46 [11] and TED-LIUM [12]
benchmarks.
Unlike the speech environment in the above-mentioned
studies, industrial environments are filled with complex acous-
tic conditions, including audio segments containing only non-
speech noise or varying lengths of silence.
The Whisper
model’s lack of robustness in handling such inputs has been
long criticized1.
While hallucination on speech content can
lead to misinformation, in most cases, such hallucinations are
recognizable and can be filtered out by reviewers. Despite mis-
information, the primary content of the speech remains under-
standable, allowing users to grasp the main ideas. In contrast,
hallucinations on non-speech content pose a greater challenge
by fabricating non-existent inputs. This can result in significant
confusion in understanding transcriptions, as users may strug-
gle to distinguish whether the entire segments of transcription
are real. In [13], the authors also identified the hallucination
issue on non-speech inputs and attempted to remove it by ap-
plying VAD as pre-processing and an n-gram language model
as post-processing. However, these techniques remain limited
in effectiveness. Although VAD can be used to remove non-
speech segments, due to the inherent limitations of VAD mod-
els, complete removal is unachievable. For example Silero VAD
v5 [14] achieves only 61% utterance-level accuracy on the ESC-
50 dataset[15], suggesting that up to 40% of pure noise in sim-
ilar scenarios could be misinterpreted as speech and propagate
through the recognition pipeline. Regarding post-processing,
using an additional language model as filter [13] may also filter
out real speech contents, causing a loss of information.
In this paper, we seek to eliminate Whisper’s non-speech
1https://github.com/openai/whisper/
discussions/1606
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
3414
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-201

Figure 1: Most frequently hallucinated sentences by Whisper-
large-v3 on UrbanSound8K
hallucinations within the model itself. We hypothesize that only
certain self-attention heads in the decoder are noise-sensitive
and hallucinatory. To validate this, we mask these heads one
by one and benchmark their impact on hallucination occur-
rence. After identifying the most hallucinatory heads, we con-
duct calm-down fine-tuning only on these heads using non-
speech audio paired with blank labels. Results show that our
approach reduces non-speech hallucinations by over 80% while
maintaining undegraded speech recognition accuracy.
2. Whisper Hallucination On Non-Speech
As a first step, we run Whisper-large-v32 on the UrbanSound8K
dataset [16] to showcase its significant hallucination problem
dealing with non-speech inputs.
2.1. Evaluation Set
UrbanSound8K is a widely used environmental sound dataset
designed for audio classification and recognition tasks. It con-
sists of 8,732 labeled sound clips spanning 10 different classes
of urban sounds, including street music, air conditioners, and
other noise sources that could be commonly encountered in in-
dustrial settings. Each audio clip is up to four seconds long,
which is also similar to the typical pause duration of speakers
in industrial environments such as call centers.
2.2. Metric
For speech content, the insertion error rate (IER) is commonly
used as a metric to measure a model’s hallucination. However,
for non-speech content, where the total number of words in
the sentence is zero, IER cannot be calculated. In such case,
we abandon word-level evaluation methods and adopt a stricter
utterance-level metric. We consider the hallucination assess-
ment for non-speech content as a binary classification task: for
an entire audio clip, the model’s output is categorized as either
hallucinating or not hallucinating. A robust model is expected
to produce an empty transcription for non-speech input, which
is considered ”not hallucinating,” whereas any non-zero-length
transcription is regarded as ”hallucinating”. Therefore, the hal-
lucination rate, which quantifies non-speech hallucination, can
be defined as:
Hallucination Rate = Nlen(transcription)>0
Ntotal
(1)
where Nlen(transcription)>0 refers to the number of hallucinat-
ing transcriptions and Ntotal is the total number of audios in the
dataset. Throughout the rest of this paper, we employ it as the
standard metric for assessing non-speech hallucinations.
2https://huggingface.co/openai/
whisper-large-v3
Figure 2:
Whisper-large-v3’s hallucination rate on Urban-
Sound8K with one particular self-attention head in the decoder
masked.
2.3. Results
For comparison, we also run a popular CTC [17] model
Conformer-CTC-Large3 [18]. As is shown in Table 3, Whisper-
large-v3 exhibits an enormous hallucination rate of nearly
100%, whereas Conformer-CTC is considerably more robust,
with a hallucination rate of only 13.52%.
Table
1:
Hallucination
Rate
of
Whisper-large-v3
and
Conformer-CTC-large on UrbanSound8K.
Whisper-large-v3
Conformer-CTC-large
Hallucination Rate
99.97%
13.52%
Additionally, in Figure 1, we present some of the most fre-
quently hallucinated contents. It can be observed that Whisper-
large-v3 tends to misinterpret non-speech sounds as filler words
or markers of tone and pause, with as much as 55.2% of the
audios being transcribed into ” so”. Moreover, we found that
8.5% of the hallucinations span more than five tokens, which
might significantly disrupt the overall comprehension of the
transcription under industrial conditions.
3. Hallucinatory Heads Detection
In [19], the authors investigated the role of the ”retrieval head”
in transformer-based language models in maintaining factual
accuracy over long contexts. Inspired by this research, we hy-
pothesize that the decoder in the Whisper model, which han-
dles language modeling, may also have ”crazy heads” that are
more prone to causing hallucinations. To verify this effect, we
conduct experiments using both single-head masking and multi-
head masking approaches.
3.1. Single-Head Masking
We begin by masking each of the 20 self-attentional heads (#0-
#19) in the decoder, one at a time, and subsequently measure
the hallucination rate on the UrbanSound8k dataset.
The head-wise benchmark results are presented in Figure
2. Compared to the scenario without any masking (marked in
green), masking any one of the following eight heads—#0, #1,
#3, #4, #6, #8, #11, or #19—leads to varying degrees of re-
duction in the hallucination rate on the UrbanSound8K dataset
(marked in red). This indicates that these heads contribute to
hallucinations and are thus identified as hallucinatory heads. In
3https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/
teams/nemo/models/stt_en_conformer_ctc_large
3415

contrast, masking one of the other 12 heads increases the hal-
lucination rate (marked in blue), indicating their robustness in
handling pure noises.
Notably, among the eight identified hallucinatory heads,
masking head #1 leads to a reduction of the hallucination rate
by more than 30%, demonstrating that head #1 is the craziest
head compared to the other heads.
3.2. Multi-Head Masking
After validating our hypothesis, we attempt to mask combina-
tions of the hallucinatory heads to further minimize the halluci-
nation rate. However, considering that the mask operation could
negatively impact speech recognition performance, we also cal-
culate the Word Error Rate (WER) on LibriSpeech [20] test-
clean and test-other sets to illustrate the trade-off between re-
ducing hallucinations and maintaining recognition accuracy.
Table 2: Results of masking combinations of heads in Whisper-
large-v3 decoder. The Hallucination Rate on UrbanSound8K
and the Word Error Rate (WER) on LibriSpeech test-clean and
test-other are reported.
Masked Heads
Hallucination Rate
WER test-clean
WER test-other
Non-Mask
99.97%
2.12%
4.07%
#1, #6
50.16%
5.70%
5.48%
#1, #11
70.03%
3.80%
6.07%
#6, #11
57.08%
2.37%
4.66%
#1, #6, #11
24.10%
3.57%
5.98%
#0, #1, #6, #11
28.91%
15.87%
21.39%
First, following the order shown in Figure 2, we infer the
model by masking each time two of the top three most halluci-
natory heads: #1, #11, and #6. Next, based on this, we further
mask all three/four most hallucinatory heads. As shown in Ta-
ble 3, masking all the top three heads lowers the hallucination
rate to a minimum of 24.10%. Compared to the non-mask sce-
nario, this highlights that the joint contribution of these three
heads results in over 75% of the hallucinations. Meanwhile, we
observed that masking three heads, compared to masking four,
makes little difference in transcription accuracy, with the WER
on LibriSpeech test-clean increasing from 2.12% to 3.57% and
test-other increasing from 4.07% to 5.98%. These results sug-
gest that masking three heads offers an optimal trade-off be-
tween hallucination mitigation and ASR accuracy, which serves
as the experimenral groundwork for the calm-down fine-tuning
in Section 4. In addition, we found that the benefits of masking
multiple heads were not as clear-cut as expected. For example,
the hallucination rate increases when masking heads #1 and #11
together versus masking head #1 alone, which points to a com-
plex interplay among the heads.
4. Calm-Down Fine-tuning
Based on the findings in Section 3.2, we search to further re-
duce the hallucination rate while minimizing the loss of speech
recognition accuracy. We consider that retaining all heads dur-
ing inference, rather than masking them out directly, allows for
a closer approximation to the original recognition performance.
Therefore, we fine-tune the three most hallucinatory heads to
guide the model to remain calm when processing non-speech
inputs. As shown in Figure 3, we freeze all other parameters in
the Whisper model, keeping only the parameters of heads #1,
#6, and #11 in each decoder layer trainable. Additionally, we
train the model using purely noise data with blank labels.
Figure 3: Calm-down fine-tuning designed to mitigate halluci-
nations in Whisper-large-v3. Specifically, all parameters in the
Whisper-large-v3 model are frozen except for the parameters
in head #1, #6, and #11 of each decoder layer. The model is
trained using various non-speech noises paired with empty la-
bel strings to discourage it from reacting to non-speech inputs.
4.1. Training set
Our fine-tuning utilizes three datasets—AudioSet, DEMAND,
and Musan—encompassing a total of 105 hours of non-speech
data.
AudioSet [21] is a comprehensive collection of audio events
designed to support various tasks in audio analysis.
It con-
sists of over two million 10-second audio clips sourced from
YouTube, labeled across 527 classes of sound events, includ-
ing human speech, environmental sounds, music, and more. In
our experiments, we utilize a subset of 11,753 audio clips, and
exclude those segments labeled as ”human speech”.
The Diverse Environments Multichannel Acoustic Noise
Database (DEMAND) [22] provides high-quality recordings of
environmental noises. DEMAND features recordings from 18
different acoustic environments, captured using a 16-channel
microphone array. These environments range from quiet indoor
spaces to busy outdoor locations, offering a wide spectrum of
real-world noise conditions. For audio files that exceed 30 sec-
onds, we split them into segments of 30 seconds or shorter.
The MUSAN dataset [23] is a large-scale corpus designed
for speech, music, and noise augmentation in speech processing
tasks. The dataset covers a wide variety of audio types, includ-
ing diverse music genres, natural and artificial noise sources,
and speech recordings in multiple languages. Similarly, we only
utilize the music and noise subsets, and chunk long audio files
into 30-second clips.
For the calm-down fine-tuning we use only non-speech
data, this has two key benefits: first, it minimizes the need
for transcription, significantly reducing data annotation require-
3416

ments. Second, by excluding speech data from the fine-tuning
process, it ensures that the benchmark results on LibriSpeech
remain unaffected in order to form a meaningful contrast, high-
lighting only the impact of non-speech fine-tuning on the WER
of speech contents.
4.2. Experimental Settings
We first conduct a contrast experiment by fine-tuning the entire
decoder, aiming to assess the necessity of limiting fine-tuning
to only three identified hallucinatory heads. We fine-tune the
entire decoder on our training set for 3 epochs.
Next, for calm-down fine-tuning with the three most hal-
lucinatory heads, we conduct experiments using different num-
bers of iterations. These experiments aim to observe the im-
pact of varying fine-tuning depth on the model’s overall perfor-
mance. For each experiment, we fine-tune the model using a
total batch size of 128 and a learning rate of 10−6 with a warm-
up phase around 15% of the total iterations.
4.3. Results and Discussion
In the same manner as in Section 3.2, we benchmark the fine-
tuned models on UrbanSound8K and the LibriSpeech test-clean
and test-other datasets, comparing their performance with the
non-fine-tuned models. It should be noted that we do not apply
any head masks during the inference for the fine-tuned models.
The results are shown in Table 3.
Table 3: The hallucination rate on UrbanSound8K and the
WER on LibriSpeech test-clean and test-other for non-fine-
tuned models (first two rows) and calm-down fine-tuned models
(last three rows).
Model
Hallucination Rate
WER test-clean
WER test-other
Non-Mask
99.97%
2.12%
4.07%
Mask #1 #6 #11
24.10%
3.57%
5.98%
ft-decoder-3epochs
0,01%
100%
100%
ft-3heads-3epochs
69.79%
2.16%
4.08%
ft-3heads-5epochs
15.51%
2.19%
4.13%
For the non-fine-tuned models, we copy directly the results
from Table 2, including the non-mask inference Non-Mask, and
the inference with 3 crazy heads masked Mask #1 #6 #11. For
the fine-tuned models, we list three variations: (1) ft-decoder-
3epochs, where we fine-tune the entire decoder for three epochs;
(2) ft-3heads-3epochs, where we fine-tune only three crazy
heads for three epochs; and (3) ft-3heads-5epochs, where we
fine-tune only three crazy heads for five epochs.
We first analyze whether it is necessary to perform fine-
tuning only on crazy heads.
The ft-decoder-3epochs model
reduces the hallucination rate to almost zero compared to the
original model without fine-tuning.
However, this improve-
ment comes at a high cost, with the WER on Librispeech ris-
ing to 100%, demonstrating that fine-tuning the entire decoder
on non-speech data severely destroys the model’s recognition
performance. In comparison, while reducing the hallucination
rate from the initial value 99.97% to 69.79%, ft-3heads-3epochs
maintains remarkable stability on the LibriSpeech benchmarks
under the same 3-epoch fine-tuning, with only a 0.04% WER
drop on the test-clean set and a 0.01% drop on test-other. The
contrast reveals that when only 3 crazy heads in the decoder
are fine-tuned, the remaining non-fine-tuned heads in the de-
coder can preserve much of the model’s original capabilities
on speech recognition, offering necessary redundancy and ro-
Figure 4: The evolution of the hallucination rate on Urban-
Sound8K and the WER on LibriSpeech test-clean across suc-
cessive calm-down fine-tuning epochs for Whisper-large-v3.
bustness. In opposition, fine-tuning all the decoder heads can
disrupt their established collaboration and overwrite the pre-
trained knowledge, ultimately leading to a significant decline
in performance.
Next,
we
find
that
the
hallucination
rate
of
ft-
decoder-3epochs remains high compared to the 24.10%
of Mask #1 #6 #11.
Given the low WER on LibriSpeech
benchmarks, there is still room to conduct further fine-tuning.
As a result of deeper fine-tuning, the model ft-3heads-5epochs
achieves a better balance between hallucination and speech
recognition accuracy, significantly reducing the hallucination
rate to 15.51%, with only minor increases in LibriSpeech
WER: 0.07% on test-clean and 0.06% on test-other. We also
tracked the number of hallucinations that span more than five
tokens and discovered a significant reduction from 742 to 91
after 5-epoch calm-down fine-tuning, illustrating the universal
effectiveness of our method.
Additionally, we further investigate the impact of fine-
tuning depth. Figure 4 illustrates the evolution of the progres-
sion of the hallucination rate and the WER on LibriSpeech test-
clean as fine-tuning epochs increase. It can be observed that as
fine-tuning becomes deeper, hallucination drops sharply at the
beginning and then flattens, while the WER moves from slow
increases to steeper rises. The best balance is reached between
five and six epochs. As a conservative measure, we determine
that the model fine-tuned for 5 epochs is the most ideal, which
we name as Calm-Whisper.
5. Conclusion
In this paper, we investigate the hallucination issue of the Whis-
per model on non-speech segments. By applying a head-wise
mask and benchmarking the hallucination rate, we identify the
most problematic heads in the Whisper-large-v3 decoder that
cause hallucination. We then perform calm-down fine-tuning
which focuses on only the three craziest heads using collected
non-speech data. Additionally, we explore the impact of differ-
ent fine-tuning epochs to optimize the trade-off between hallu-
cination and speech recognition accuracy. Through our work,
we hope to help mitigate Whisper’s limitations in industrial ap-
plications and offer new perspectives on solving Whisper’s hal-
lucination issues.
3417

6. References
[1] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak
supervision,” in International conference on machine learning.
PMLR, 2023, pp. 28 492–28 518.
[2] H. Alkaissi and S. I. McFarlane, “Artificial hallucinations in chat-
gpt: implications in scientific writing,” Cureus, vol. 15, no. 2,
2023.
[3] Z. Ji, N. Lee, R. Frieske, T. Yu, D. Su, Y. Xu, E. Ishii, Y. J. Bang,
A. Madotto, and P. Fung, “Survey of hallucination in natural lan-
guage generation,” ACM Computing Surveys, vol. 55, no. 12, pp.
1–38, 2023.
[4] Y. Zhou, C. Cui, J. Yoon, L. Zhang, Z. Deng, C. Finn, M. Bansal,
and H. Yao, “Analyzing and mitigating object hallucination in
large vision-language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.00754,
2023.
[5] V. Raunak, A. Menezes, and M. Junczys-Dowmunt, “The curi-
ous case of hallucinations in neural machine translation,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2104.06683, 2021.
[6] R. Frieske and B. E. Shi, “Hallucinations in neural automatic
speech recognition: Identifying errors and hallucinatory models,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.01572, 2024.
[7] A. Koenecke, A. S. G. Choi, K. X. Mei, H. Schellmann,
and M. Sloane, “Careless whisper: Speech-to-text hallucination
harms,” in The 2024 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountabil-
ity, and Transparency, 2024, pp. 1672–1681.
[8] A. Mittal, R. Murthy, V. Kumar, and R. Bhat, “Towards under-
standing and mitigating the hallucinations in nlp and speech,” in
Proceedings of the 7th Joint International Conference on Data
Science & Management of Data (11th ACM IKDD CODS and
29th COMAD), 2024, pp. 489–492.
[9] S. Gandhi, P. von Platen, and A. M. Rush, “Distil-whisper: Robust
knowledge distillation via large-scale pseudo labelling,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2311.00430, 2023.
[10] M. Bain, J. Huh, T. Han, and A. Zisserman, “Whisperx: Time-
accurate speech transcription of long-form audio,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.00747, 2023.
[11] “Which
automatic
transcription
service
is
the
most
ac-
curate?”
https://medium.com/descript/which-automatic-
transcriptionservice-is-the-most-accurate-2018-2e859b23ed19,
accessed: 2023-04-27.
[12] A. Rousseau, P. Del´eglise, and Y. Esteve, “Ted-lium: an automatic
speech recognition dedicated corpus.” in LREC, 2012, pp. 125–
129.
[13] M.
Bara´nski,
J.
Jasi´nski,
J.
Bartolewska,
S.
Kacprzak,
M. Witkowski, and K. Kowalczyk, “Investigation of whisper
asr hallucinations induced by non-speech audio,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2501.11378, 2025.
[14] S. Team, “Silero vad: pre-trained enterprise-grade voice activity
detector (vad), number detector and language classifier,” https://
github.com/snakers4/silero-vad, 2024.
[15] K. J. Piczak, “Esc: Dataset for environmental sound classifica-
tion,” in Proceedings of the 23rd ACM international conference
on Multimedia, 2015, pp. 1015–1018.
[16] J. Salamon, C. Jacoby, and J. P. Bello, “A dataset and taxonomy
for urban sound research,” in Proceedings of the 22nd ACM inter-
national conference on Multimedia, 2014, pp. 1041–1044.
[17] A. Graves, S. Fern´andez, F. Gomez, and J. Schmidhuber, “Con-
nectionist temporal classification:
labelling unsegmented se-
quence data with recurrent neural networks,” in Proceedings of
the 23rd international conference on Machine learning, 2006, pp.
369–376.
[18] A. Gulati, J. Qin, C.-C. Chiu, N. Parmar, Y. Zhang, J. Yu, W. Han,
S. Wang, Z. Zhang, Y. Wu et al., “Conformer: Convolution-
augmented transformer for speech recognition,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2005.08100, 2020.
[19] W. Wu, Y. Wang, G. Xiao, H. Peng, and Y. Fu, “Retrieval head
mechanistically explains long-context factuality,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2404.15574, 2024.
[20] V. Panayotov, G. Chen, D. Povey, and S. Khudanpur, “Lib-
rispeech: an asr corpus based on public domain audio books,”
in 2015 IEEE international conference on acoustics, speech and
signal processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2015, pp. 5206–5210.
[21] J. F. Gemmeke, D. P. Ellis, D. Freedman, A. Jansen, W. Lawrence,
R. C. Moore, M. Plakal, and M. Ritter, “Audio set: An ontology
and human-labeled dataset for audio events,” in 2017 IEEE inter-
national conference on acoustics, speech and signal processing
(ICASSP).
IEEE, 2017, pp. 776–780.
[22] J. Thiemann, N. Ito, and E. Vincent, “The diverse environments
multi-channel acoustic noise database (demand): A database of
multichannel environmental noise recordings,” in Proceedings of
Meetings on Acoustics, vol. 19, no. 1.
AIP Publishing, 2013.
[23] D. Snyder, G. Chen, and D. Povey, “Musan: A music, speech, and
noise corpus,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1510.08484, 2015.
3418

