warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
What the Filler? Both ASR Systems and Humans Struggle More With Other
Kinds of Disfluencies Than With Filler Particles
Saskia Wepner1, Lucas Eckert1, Gernot Kubin1, Barbara Schuppler1
1Signal Processing and Speech Communication Laboratory, Graz University of Technology, Austria
wepner@tugraz.at, eckert@student.tugraz.at, gernot.kubin@tugraz.at,
b.schuppler@tugraz.at
Abstract
Since disfluencies are frequent in conversational speech, they
have received notable attention: from speech technologists to
make automatic speech recognition (ASR) more robust and
from speech scientists to learn more about human speech pro-
cessing. For ASR, the most established quality measure is the
word error rate (WER), while for human recognition, one of
the measures is the recall of words or utterance-level semantics.
We conduct a transcription experiment in which we present the
same disfluent utterances to 54 participants and nine ASR sys-
tems. We analyse which factors affect transcription in the con-
text of syntactic disfluencies and filler particles, including well-
known factors such as pronunciation variation and articulation
rate. We find that, surprisingly, both humans and ASR struggle
with largely the same characteristics of conversational speech –
despite their mean WERs differing by about 10 % – and that the
presence or absence of filler particles does not affect the WER.
Index Terms: syntactic disfluencies, fillers, human transcrip-
tion, automatic speech recognition, conversational speech
1. Introduction
Spontaneous conversations are characterised by the frequent oc-
currence of disfluencies in the form of (long) silent pauses, rep-
etitions, repairs, and other types of utterance fragments that may
stem from the joint co-construction of an utterance by more than
one interlocutor [1, 2, 3]. One specific form of disfluency is
the use of filler particles (FPs), a terminology we use here in
line with Belz (2023) [4] to refer to semantically empty and
syntactically unconstrained particles. FPs’ timing and acous-
tic characteristics have been analysed from different angles [5],
depending on whether the aim was to learn more about speech
planning in language processing (e.g., in bilingual speech [6])
or their function in discourse organisation [7]. When taking the
listener’s perspective, FPs are a reliable cue for children to infer
speaker intention in advance of object labelling [8] and help re-
call information for adults [9]. Further, words following FPs are
recognised more quickly [10]. Given that FPs occur in differ-
ent syntactic positions [5] and may be accompanied by a slower
speech rate in their context (e.g., [11]), the question addressed
in this paper is to which degree (word) recognition around FPs
is affected by the occurrence of the FP itself and to which degree
by disfluent syntax or acoustic characteristics.
Also in the field of speech technology, disfluencies have
received attention. Dialogue systems shall become more in-
teractional which has increased the interest in modelling non-
lexical tokens for different functions: for backchanneling (e.g.,
[12]), and in the form of FPs for turn-holding and more natu-
rally sounding longer turns (e.g., [5, 13, 14]). However, the aim
of more interactional speech technologies comes with the need
for automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems to be robust to
disfluencies produced by the users, making it crucial to improve
word error rates (WERs) for spontaneous speech, in which FPs
make up a large portion of verbal tokens (e.g., 10 % of all tokens
in telephone conversations [15]). Replacing FPs with a uni-
fied symbol reduced WERs in spontaneous Japanese [16] and
computer-directed English [17]. More fine-grained labelling of
non-lexical tokens led to no confusions with lexical tokens and
thus did not increase WER in Hungarian and Austrian German
conversations [18]. These studies have in common that they re-
port global WERs or separate WERs for lexical tokens and FPs
but they do not provide information about the effect of FPs on
WER in their context. To the best of our knowledge, [11] pro-
vides the only analysis on whether words in the context of FPs
and other disfluencies are recognised equally well by HMM-
based ASR systems as those in fluent utterances. In this paper,
we fill this knowledge gap by analysing WERs from different
transformer-based ASR systems in different types of syntacti-
cally disfluent structures, with or without FPs.
1.1. Study design
While for humans “there is a system in place that lets speak-
ers deal with errors and disfluencies” [3, p. 68], humans are not
used to transcribing on a daily basis. We thus do not assume
that mistranscriptions made by humans are necessarily equiv-
alent to misrecognitions.
However, we use the term human
speech recognition (HSR) in line with ASR. ASR systems, in
contrast, are built for transcribing but are trained mainly on flu-
ent speech (e.g., [19]). Our aim is to investigate how strongly
disfluencies affect transcription for both ASR and HSR, with
a specific focus on (1) the kind of syntactic disfluency, (2) the
role of which part of the utterance was presented, and (3) the
presence or absence of an FP. We therefore define:
(1) Disfluency types. All selected utterances were disfluent
in one of the following ways: The structure that started before
the disfluency was at that point ...
... syntactically incomplete1 and was continued after the disflu-
ency; thus it showed a durational disfluency only (durational):
es w¨are dort eine interessante
(there would have been an interesting
¨ah
er
firma gewesen
company)
... syntactically incomplete and was not continued after the dis-
fluency, but instead a new structure was started (syn+dur):
weil das ist
(because that’s
¨ahm
uhm
die fahren dich n¨amlich ganz rauf
they drive you all the way up)
... syntactically complete (complete) and a new structure was
1The disfluency occurred at a point of maximum grammatical con-
trol [20] and did not reach a transition relevance place (TRP) yet [21].
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2325
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-757

started after the disfluency, i.e., the speaker reached a transition
relevance place (TRP) [21] before the pause:2
das ist eine andere geschichte
(that’s another story
ahm
umm
und er ist sechsundachtzig
and he is sixty-eight)
We expect more transcription errors when a syntactic disfluency
occurs in the middle of a syntactic structure than after a TRP.
(2) Conditions. To investigate the effect of the part of the
utterance, we presented the stimuli in three different condi-
tions: The whole utterance (condition whole), the part before
the disfluency (pre-disfluency, in a dotted frame in the exam-
ples above), or the part after the disfluency (post-disfluency,
dashed above). In pre-disfluency, we expect mistranscriptions
for stimuli that are interrupted in the middle of a syntactic struc-
ture (durational, syn+dur), than those that are complete.
(3) With or without FP. Each utterance was presented with
(w/FP) or without (/oFP) the FP being present in the stimu-
lus (see Sec. 2.1, 2.2) to investigate the influence of the FP on
transcription. Given the conflicting findings in the literature, we
have no clear expectations concerning FPs.
As known from the literature, also other factors affect word
recognition: e.g., word duration, articulation rate, pronunciation
variation, lexical frequency, and whether surrounding words are
hard to parse. We therefore include these factors in our analysis.
2. Method
2.1. Materials
We used the GRASS corpus [22], which contains one-hour
long, unscripted, dyadic conversations in Austrian German.3
We searched the orthographic transcriptions for typical German
FPs, such as ¨ah [E:], ¨ahm [E:m], ahm [a:m]. We excluded stim-
uli that contained foreign language words or additional disflu-
encies. Based on the available annotations of communicative
functions for GRASS [23], we categorised the extracted utter-
ances (with [24]) and categorised them according to disfluency
types (dType), leaving us with a total of 46 utterances: 17 du-
rational, 16 syn+dur, and 13 complete, consisting of 872
words (excl. FPs, see Tab. 1) which were transcribed by the par-
ticipants (see Sec. 2.2) and by all ASR systems (see Sec. 2.3).
The stimuli without FP (/oFP) were created manually from
the selected utterances: We replaced the FP in whole stimuli
with a silence that resembled the recording’s local noise floor.
In those cases where removing the FP produced an audible arte-
fact by cutting it off, we softened the edges of the signal (with
attack and decay) to obtain naturally sounding stimuli. In condi-
tions pre- and post-disfluency, we kept the FPs in cases with-
out pause to the neighbouring word, otherwise, we cut it off.
2.2. Transcription experiment
54 native Austrian German speakers (26 female, 1 non-binary,
27 male, aged 19–74 years, mean 28.4 years) participated in
the experiment; they were compensated financially. All were
normal-hearing, none of them was dyslexic.
We also asked
them to rate their keyboard skills,4 which did not correlate with
WER (−0.16). The experiment duration was approx. 60 min
per participant (incl. training to familiarise themselves with the
2We did not use the continuation via an increment vs. rephrasing of
the rear part as an additional factor as it was not our main focus.
3There has been much research on standard German as spoken in
Germany; despite representing another variety of German, GRASS is
one of the few unscripted conversational speech corpora for German.
4On a four-level scale from very skilled (4) to not skilled at all (1).
Table 1: Number of utterances by disfluency type, condition,
and FP presence, and number of words excl. FPs (column 2).
Disfluency Type Condition
w/FP /oFP
durational (17)
whole (151 words)
17
17
pre-disfluency (77)
2
15
post-disfluency (74)
9
8
syn+dur (16)
whole (171 words)
16
16
pre-disfluency (75)
4
12
post-disfluency (96)
2
14
complete (13)
whole (149 words)
13
13
pre-disfluency (74)
2
9
post-disfluency (75)
2
11
setup and the stimuli). Each participant listened to a total of
46 utterances. Each stimulus was presented twice in immediate
succession, allowing for correcting the first transcription.
The stimuli for each participant contained one specific ut-
terance either in condition whole or in condition pre- and post-
disfluency (in randomised order with the other stimuli). Fur-
ther, each participant only heard one specific whole utterance
either with FP or without FP. We made sure that stimuli from
the same GRASS speakers did not occur consecutively in the
experiment, to avoid listener adaptation effects. Additionally,
the same stimulus was heard by some participants earlier and
by some later in the experiment. Since participants were able
to correct their first transcription after a second listening, there
were two versions from each participant to each stimulus. We
only evaluate the second, corrected transcription.
2.3. Automatic speech recognition systems
We decoded the utterances with nine ASR systems, using either
Whisper [25] (models large-v3/v2/v1, medium, small, as of
22nd May 2023), and the medium model fine-tuned with the
corpus data [26]; or wav2vec2.0 [27], also fine-tuned to GRASS
[26]5 (models w2v2-lex-free (greedy decoding), w2v2-lex,
w2v2-LM-2.0). All utterances were fed to all ASR systems in
all three conditions and with or without FP.
2.4. Data post-processing
We normalised the transcriptions of all participants and ASR
systems by lower-casing, removing punctuation, duplicate
white-spaces, and converting digits to number words. Since
we were not interested in the transcription of the FPs them-
selves, we discarded them in all transcriptions (if any) and in
the ground truth. For both HSR and ASR, we treated ambigu-
ous orthographic representations of words as equally valid, for
instance, if they originated from different segmentation, such as
in separable verbs like ‘zur¨uckzuf¨uhren’ vs. ‘zur¨uck zu f¨uhren’
(attributable to) or in compounds. We accepted transcriptions
that represented a typical reduced variant; for instance, (I) have
is often pronounced [h a p] instead of ‘habe’ [h a: b @], and fre-
quently written as ‘hab’ in (casual) text messaging. For HSR,
we also corrected obvious typos, because we were not interested
in whether the participants were good at spelling.6
5Each of the fine-tuned systems did only see the data of the conver-
sations that did not contain the speaker of the utterance to be decoded.
6Obvious typos were words with, e.g., drops or swaps of characters
which did not result in words close to orthographic neighbours (e.g.,
2326

Table 2: Continuous and categoric variables in the analysis.
Variable
Description
dType
Disfl. types durational, syn+dur, complete.
cond
Conditions whole, pre-, or post-disfluency.
w/oFP
Stimulus with FP (w/FP) or without (/oFP)?
wFreq
Logarithmic frequency (number of occur-
rences in the whole corpus) of the word.
pNeigh,
sNeigh
Was the transcription of the previous/subse-
quent neighbour correct, incorrect or was the
neighbour not there (none)?7
wDur
Duration of the word in milliseconds.
pDist
Pronunciation distance, representing degree of
reduction and strength of dialect.
funVScon Was the word a function or content word?
artRate
Articulation rate of the stimulus in phones
sec
.
who
Transcribed by ASR or a human (HSR)?
2.5. Feature extraction
We determined the WER for each stimulus and each partici-
pant/ASR system, and from this derived for each word whether
its transcription was correct or incorrect. For each word, we
determined its duration wDur (via forced alignments done
with Kaldi using a pronunciation lexicon [28] covering the re-
alised pronunciations in the data [29]), pronunciation distance
pDist (as the Levenshtein distance of the realised pronunciation
to its canonical representation), its lexical frequency wFreq,
whether it was a function or content word funVScon (based
on Part-of-Speech tags gained via TreeTagger [30] with the
tag-set for spoken German [31, 32] manually corrected). We
determined whether neighbouring words were transcribed cor-
rectly, encoded in the variables (pNeigh, previous neighbour
and sNeigh, subsequent neighbour). Other factors that might
influence transcription may be the number of words in the stim-
ulus: Transformer-based ASR systems may benefit from longer
stretches of speech whereas humans’ short-term memory is lim-
ited [33]. Since the number of words is highly correlated with
the stimulus duration (0.70) and this in turn with the articulation
rate (−0.42) and the conditions (as pre and post are naturally
shorter than whole), we tested their correlation with the WER.8
As the WER had the highest correlation with the articulation
rate of the stimulus (artRate), we included the articulation rate
into the analysis. The full set of variables is shown in Tab. 2.
2.6. Statistical analysis
To model whether a word was transcribed correctly, we built a
Conditional Inference Tree (CIT) [34], which divides the data
based on significance while inherently handling interactions and
allowing for direct interpretability; we used the R package par-
tykit (version 1.2-10) with (word) correct as outcome and
‘nihct’ instead of ‘nicht’, not).
7Each word had at least one neighbouring word.
8Correlation of WER with number of words: 0.04 (ASR), 0.07
(HSR), stimulus duration: −0.1 (ASR), < 0.01 (HSR), and stimulus
articulation rate: 0.23 (ASR), 0.11 (HSR).
the predictors dType, cond, w/oFP, wFreq, pDist, wDur,
funVScon, artRate, pNeigh, sNeigh, who.
As we were interested in finding overall patterns rather than
displaying peculiarities of only a few words, we reduced the
alpha level from its default to α=.019 and set the minimum
number of observations in the last split to 5 % of all words.
3. Results
The mean WERs of all utterances were 9.22 % for HSR across
all 54 participants and 19.29 % for ASR across all 9 systems.
Fig. 1, shows the mean WERs of the individual participants and
ASR systems. Previously reported WERs for ASR on the whole
GRASS corpus lie in the range of 15.27 % to 63.84 % (e.g.,
[26]), showing that our WERs lie in an expected range for the
data. Five ASR systems achieved lower WERs than several hu-
man participants (4 for w2v-LM-2.0).
Figure 1: Mean WER over all utterances separately for each
participant and each ASR system (HSR: 9.22 %, ASR 19.29 %).
In the following, we analyse which factors affected whether
individual words were transcribed correctly or not with a CIT
(see Fig. 2). Since each node in the tree – except for leaves 13
and 24 – contains a large number of words, we only mention
these numbers in the figure and do not repeat them in the text.
The first two levels split the words based on their immediate
neighbourhood. The branches on the right (nodes 26, 29, down-
wards) comprise words with at least one incorrect neighbour-
ing word; these words were above average incorrect (45.63 %)
and represent 15.19 % of the data. Among them, those words
in an unsupportive neighbourhood (i.e., with no correct neigh-
bour) were more often incorrect than correct (leaves 27, 31,
32: 69.20 % incorrect), while words where the respective other
neighbour was correct were less often incorrect (leaves 28, 33:
24.75 % incorrect). High-frequency words (wFreq>3.87) in
an unsupportive neighbourhood were more often incorrect than
words that occurred less frequently (cf. leaves 31 and 32).
Node 3 splits the words with at least one correct neigh-
bour by dType into complete (3.29 % incorrect) vs. du-
rational/syn+dur (5.02 % incorrect). Among the words in
complete, those with a high frequency (wFreq>8.08, leaf 10:
1.07 % incorrect) were most often correct; among the low-
frequency words (wFreq ≤8.08), those with a high pronunci-
ation distance (pDist>0.11) were more often incorrect (leaf 9:
7.81 % incorrect) than the words that were closer to the canoni-
cal pronunciation (pDist≤0.11). In these latter words, it played
a role whether they were transcribed by ASR (leaf 8: 4.69 %
incorrect) or by HSR (leaf 7: 2.64 % incorrect).
Stimulus-
initial words (pNeigh=none) in durational/syn+dur (node
11 downwards) were above average incorrect when they were
9alpha=0.05 deepened the tree without changing the main splits.
2327

Figure 2: Conditional Inference Tree of individual words (transcription correct or not). In total, 10.47 % of the words were incorrect.
The percentage in the leaves represents the fraction of incorrect words in the respective leaf. Grey nodes represent neighbouring words
while coloured nodes represent the characteristics of the word in question. Node numbers are given for reference in square brackets.
short (wDur≤67 ms, leaf 13: 35.5 % incorrect), and below
average incorrect when they were longer (leaf 14:
6.5 %
incorrect).
Stimulus-final words (sNeigh=none) in dura-
tional/syn+dur that were preceded by a correct neighbour
were more often incorrect when they originated from condi-
tion whole or post-disfluency and were shorter than 270 ms
(leaf 18: 12.5 % incorrect) than both longer words (leaf 19:
2.5 % incorrect) or those in condition pre-disfluency (leaf
20: 8.6 % incorrect).
Words in durational/syn+dur in a
supportive neighbourhood (i.e., both neighbours being correct)
were more often correct in stimuli with lower articulation rates
(artRate≤12.3, leaf 22: 2.8 % incorrect) or when they were
longer and in stimuli with higher articulation rate (leaf 25:
4.7 % incorrect) than short words in stimuli with higher articu-
lation rates (leaf 24: 17.4 % incorrect, wDur≤23 ms).
When allowing the tree to grow deeper, funVScon became
relevant for a subset of 455 words, while w/oFP became rel-
evant for 157 words in a separate tree containing only words
from pre- and post-disfluency showing that these factors only
affected some particular cases but were not overall important.
4. Discussion and conclusion
We compared HSR and ASR to investigate how strongly disflu-
encies affect transcription quality, with a specific focus on (1)
the kind of syntactic disfluency, (2) the role of which part of the
utterance was presented, and (3) the presence or absence of an
FP, while taking into account other factors from the literature
known to affect WER. The mean WERs for ASR across all sys-
tems were approx. 10 % higher than for HSR. For both HSR and
ASR, we found that words with mistranscribed neighbours were
most often mistranscribed themselves. This result is intuitive
and indicates that disfluencies affect speech processing of not
just a single word. As reported for ASR [11], we showed that
also HSR was affected by lexical frequency and pronunciation
variation: Words of high lexical frequency resulted in worse
transcriptions than low-frequency words when surrounded by
mistranscribed neighbours, but not when surrounded by cor-
rectly transcribed neighbours within structures that were syn-
tactically complete at the disfluency (i.e., the speaker reached
a TRP). A larger distance from the canonical pronunciation led
to worse transcriptions for infrequent words occurring in struc-
tures that reached a (syntactic if not necessarily prosodic) TRP
at the disfluency. Finally, in each branch where the word du-
ration played a role, shorter words were transcribed worse by
HSR and ASR than longer ones (regardless of the duration’s
range in the respective branch). These findings are in line with
those earlier reported for ASR [35, 36], while we here addition-
ally show that they are also relevant to HSR.
What role do disfluencies play? Regarding (1), we found
that for words having at least one correct neighbour, the disflu-
ency type was the most important factor: Words from utterances
that were syntactically incomplete at the disfluency were mis-
transcribed more often than those from utterances in which the
disfluency consisted of a (filled) pause at a TRP. Regarding (2),
we found that words immediately before a (filled) pause were
transcribed worse in utterances without a TRP at the disfluency
than in those with a TRP there. Hence, preceding correct neigh-
bours compensated for utterances that were interrupted in the
middle of a syntactic structure. Words in utterances that did not
reach a TRP at the disfluency and were surrounded by correctly
transcribed neighbours were transcribed worse when the articu-
lation rate in the stimulus was high than when it was low. Re-
garding (3), our analysis showed that FPs played no significant
role which is in line with [11] who reported a non-significant
effect of FPs. Later studies found the FPs themselves often to
be missed [37] or mistranscribed [38] by ASR, but they did not
analyse the FPs’ effect on surrounding words.
Limitations and Conclusions. ASR and HSR will never be
fully comparable. We did our best to reduce the factors that
cause differences, e.g., by allowing participants to listen twice
and controlling for the number of words in the stimuli to de-
crease the effect of their limited short-term memory [33]. How-
ever, transformer-based ASR systems cannot fully exploit their
potential in shorter utterances [39]. Further, we are aware that
the number of selected utterances is small, which was necessary
to keep an on-site experiment with participants feasible. We
therefore focused on analysing the common patterns of mistran-
scribed words rather than on comparing absolute WERs of utter-
ances. This allowed us to find that the factors affecting whether
a word was mistranscribed or not were largely the same for HSR
and ASR, showing that the same characteristics of spontaneous
speech are difficult for both humans and ASR.
2328

5. Acknowledgements
This research was funded in part by the Austrian Science Fund
(FWF) [10.55776/P32700].
6. References
[1] J. Ginzburg, The Interactive Stance: Meaning for Conversation.
Oxford University Press, 2012.
[2] E. Shriberg, “Disfluencies in Switchboard,” in Proc. ICSPLP,
vol. 96, 1996, pp. 11–14.
[3] M. Wiltschko, The Grammar of Interactional Language.
Cam-
bridge University Press, 2021.
[4] M. Belz, “Defining Filler Particles: A Phonetic Account of the
Terminology, Form, and Grammatical Classification of “Filled
Pauses”,” Languages, vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 57–63, 2023.
[5] S. Betz and M. S. Lopez Gambino, “Are We All Disfluent in Our
Own Special Way and Should Dialogue Systems Also Be?” Elek-
tronische Sprachsignalverarbeitung, vol. 81, 2016.
[6] M. B¨ottcher and M. Zellers, “Do You Say uh or uhm? A Cross-
Linguistic Approach to Filler Particle Use in Heritage and Major-
ity Speakers Across Three Languages,” Frontiers in Psychology,
vol. 15, pp. 1–19, 2024.
[7] E. A. Schegloff, G. Jefferson, and H. Sacks, “The Preference for
Self-Correction in the Organization of Repair in Conversation,”
Language, vol. 53, no. 2, pp. 361–382, 1977.
[8] C. Kidd, K. S. White, and R. N. Aslin, “Toddlers Use Speech
Disfluencies to Predict Speakers’ Referential Intentions,” Devel-
opmental Science, vol. 14, no. 4, pp. 925–934, 2011.
[9] S. H. Fraundorf and D. G. Watson, “The Disfluent Discourse: Ef-
fects of Filled Pauses on Recall,” Journal of Memory and Lan-
guage, vol. 65, no. 2, pp. 161–175, 2011.
[10] M. Corley and R. J. Hartsuiker, “Why um helps auditory
word recognition:
The temporal delay hypothesis,” PLOS
ONE, vol. 6, no. 5, pp. 1–6, 05 2011. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0019792
[11] S. Goldwater, D. Jurafsky, and C. D. Manning, “Which Words
Are Hard to Recognize? Prosodic, Lexical, and Disfluency Fac-
tors that Increase Speech Recognition Error Rates,” Speech Com-
munication, vol. 52, no. 3, pp. 181–200, 2010.
[12] O. Engwall, R. Cumbal, and A. R. Majlesi, “Socio-cultural per-
ception of robot backchannels,” Frontiers in Robotics and AI,
vol. 10, Jan. 2023.
[13] R. Nakanishi, K. Inoue, S. Nakamura, K. Takanashi, and T. Kawa-
hara, “Generating fillers based on dialog act pairs for smooth turn-
taking by humanoid robot,” in 9th International Workshop on Spo-
ken Dialogue System Technology, L. F. D’Haro, R. E. Banchs, and
H. Li, Eds.
Singapore: Springer Singapore, 2019, pp. 91–101.
[14] K. Yamamoto, K. Inoue, and T. Kawahara, “Character expression
for spoken dialogue systems with semi-supervised learning using
variational auto-encoder,” Computer Speech & Language, vol. 79,
p. 101469, 2023. [Online]. Available: https://www.sciencedirect.
com/science/article/pii/S0885230822000924
[15] E. Shriberg, “To ‘errrr’ is Human: Ecology and Acoustics of
Speech Disfluencies,” Journal of the International Phonetic As-
sociation, vol. 31, pp. 153–169, 2001.
[16] K. Horii, M. Fukuda, K. Ohta, R. Nishimura, A. Ogawa, and
N. Kitaoka, “End-to-End Spontaneous Speech Recognition Using
Disfluency Labeling,” in Interspeech, 2022, pp. 4108–4112.
[17] V. Mendelev, T. Raissi, G. Camporese, and M. Giollo, “Improved
robustness to disfluencies in RNN-transducer based speech recog-
nition,” in ICASSP 2021.
IEEE, 2021, pp. 6878–6882.
[18] P. Mihajlik, Y. Meng, M. K´ad´ar, J. Linke, B. Schuppler, and
K. M´ady, “On Disfluency and Non-lexical Sound Labeling for
End-to-end Automatic Speech Recognition,” in Proc. of Inter-
speech 2024, 2024, pp. 1270–1274.
[19] M. Riviere, J. Copet, and G. Synnaeve, “ASR4REAL: An Ex-
tended Benchmark for Speech Models,” in arXiv:2110.08583,
2021.
[20] E. A. Schegloff, “Turn Organization: One Intersection of Gram-
mar and Interaction,” in Interaction and Grammar, E. Ochs, E. A.
Schegloff, and S. Thompson, Eds.
Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press, 1996, pp. 52–133.
[21] M. Selting, “On the Interplay of Syntax and Prosody in the Con-
stitution of Turn-Constructional Units and Turns in Conversation,”
Pragmatics, vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 371–388, 1996.
[22] B. Schuppler, M. Hagm¨uller, and A. Zahrer, “A Corpus of Read
and Conversational Austrian German,” Speech Communication,
vol. 94, pp. 62–74, 2017.
[23] A. Kelterer and B. Schuppler, “Turn-taking annotation for
quantitative and qualitative analyses of conversation,” 2025.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.09980
[24] L. Eckert, S. Wepner, and B. Schuppler, “SLICER – A Tool for
Efficient Stimuli Extraction from Large Speech Corpora,” in Ac-
cepted for Forum Acusticum Euronoise, 2025.
[25] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, T. Xu, G. Brockman, C. McLeavey, and
I. Sutskever, “Robust Speech Recognition via Large-Scale Weak
Supervision,” in Proc. ICML.
PMLR, 2023, pp. 28 492–28 518.
[26] J. Linke, B. C. Geiger, G. Kubin, and B. Schuppler, “What’s
so complex about conversational speech?
A comparison of
HMM-based and transformer-based ASR architectures,” Com-
puter Speech & Language, vol. 90, 2025.
[27] Facebook Research,
“Fairseq Model (XLSR),” in GitHub
Repository,
2022.
[Online].
Available:
https://github.com/
facebookresearch/fairseq/tree/main/examples/wav2vec
[28] S. Wepner, “pvlex – Lexicon with Pronunciation Variants for
(Austrian) German Conversational Speech,” Jan 2025. [Online].
Available: https://github.com/SPSC-TUGraz/pvlex
[29] J. Linke, S. Wepner, G. Kubin, and B. Schuppler, “Using Kaldi for
Automatic Speech Recognition of Conversational Austrian Ger-
man,” in arXiv:2301.06475, 2023.
[30] H. Schmid, “Improvements in Part-of-Speech Tagging with an
Application to German,” in Proc. SIGDAT, 1995, pp. 1–9.
[31] S. Westpfahl, “STTS 2.0?
Improving the Tagset for the
Part-of-Speech-Tagging of German Spoken Data,” in Proc. 8th
Linguistic Annotation Workshop,
L. Levin and M. Stede,
Eds.
Dublin: Association for Computational Linguistics and
Dublin City University, 2014, pp. 1–10. [Online]. Available:
https://nbn-resolving.org/urn:nbn:de:bsz:mh39-31897
[32] S. Westpfahl and T. Schmidt, “FOLK-Gold—A Gold Standard
for Part-of-Speech-Tagging of Spoken German,” in Proc. LREC,
2016, pp. 1493–1499.
[33] A. D. Baddeley and G. J. Hitch, “The Phonological Loop as a
Buffer Store: An Update,” Cortex, vol. 112, pp. 91–106, 2019.
[34] N. Levshina, “Conditional Inference Trees and Random Forests,”
in A Practical Handbook of Corpus Linguistics, M. Paquot and
S. T. Gries, Eds.
Springer, 2021, pp. 611–643.
[35] J. Hirschberg, D. Litman, and M. Swerts, “Prosodic and other cues
to speech recognition failures,” Speech Communication, vol. 43,
no. 1, pp. 155–175, 2004.
[36] S. Wepner, B. Schuppler, and G. Kubin, “How Prosody Af-
fects ASR Performance in Conversational Austrian German,” in
Proc. Speech Prosody, 2022, pp. 195–199.
[37] A. Lopez, A. Liesenfeld, and M. Dingemanse, “Evaluation of Au-
tomatic Speech Recognition for Conversational Speech in Dutch,
English and German: What Goes Missing?” in Proc. 18th ICNLP,
2022, pp. 135–143.
[38] S. O. Russell, I. Gessinger, A. Krason, G. Vigliocco, and N. Harte,
“What automatic speech recognition can and cannot do for con-
versational speech transcription,” Research Methods in Applied
Linguistics, vol. 3, no. 3, p. 100163, 2024.
[39] J. Linke, J. Winkler, and B. Schuppler, “Context Is All You Need?
Low-Resource Conversational ASR Profits From Context, Com-
ing From the Same or From the Other Speaker,” Accepted for In-
terspeech, 2025.
2329

