warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
A Bayesian Approach to L2 Fluency Ratings by Native and Nonnative
Listeners
Kakeru Yazawa1, Takayuki Konishi2
1Institute of Humanities and Social Sciences, University of Tsukuba, Japan
2School of Languages and Communication, Kobe University, Japan
yazawa.kakeru.gb@u.tsukuba.ac.jp, tkonishi@port.kobe-u.ac.jp
Abstract
This study investigates how native and nonnative listeners eval-
uate the fluency of Japanese speakers’ English using a Bayesian
modeling framework.
Data were obtained from 16 listen-
ers with diverse linguistic backgrounds (Cantonese, English,
French, German, Japanese, Korean, Mandarin, Polish, Punjabi,
and Spanish), who rated English read speech samples from 180
Japanese speakers, in the J-AESOP corpus. Utterance fluency
measures included speed (syllable- or segment-based articula-
tion rate), breakdown (pause frequency and duration), and re-
pair (repetitions). Results revealed that nonnative listeners, par-
ticularly those with Asian language backgrounds, were gener-
ally more lenient and less reliant on speech rate than native
listeners, highlighting inter-listener variability previously over-
looked. Model comparisons also revealed that segment-based
articulation rate better captures utterance speed fluency than the
commonly adopted syllable-based articulation rate.
Index Terms: fluency ratings, (non)native listeners, Bayesian
modeling, Japanese speakers’ English, J-AESOP corpus
1. Introduction
Perceived fluency plays a crucial role in the assessment of sec-
ond language (L2) speech, as it strongly influences listeners’
judgments of a speaker’s overall L2 proficiency and comprehen-
sibility [1, 2]. Over the past four decades, substantial progress
has been made in understanding how temporal aspects of L2
speech affect fluency ratings (see [3] for a historical perspec-
tive). However, most existing research focuses on native (L1)
listeners’ judgments, leaving unclear how nonnative listener
evaluations may differ from these established norms.
The current study aims to address this gap by comparing
fluency ratings of L1 Japanese speakers’ L2 English speech, as
evaluated by 16 phonetically trained listeners with various L1
backgrounds, using data from the J-AESOP corpus [4]. Unlike
previous studies, it employs a Bayesian approach in place of a
frequentist one, allowing inter-listener variability to be investi-
gated in terms of probabilistic distributions rather than statis-
tically significant differences. These methodological shifts are
also useful for revisiting and refining commonly applied mea-
sures of utterance fluency, as discussed below.
1.1. Measures of L2 utterance fluency
Previous studies have explored and employed various measures
of L2 utterance fluency, often grouped into three sub-categories:
speed, breakdown, and repair [5].
Speed refers to the rate at which speech is produced. The
most common measure is articulation rate (AR), usually em-
ployed as the number of syllables per second excluding pauses.
Breakdown refers to interruptions in the flow of speech. Of-
ten used measures are the frequency and duration of filled and
unfilled pauses, while pause location may also be examined.
Repair refers to corrections speakers make to their speech.
This includes instances of repetitions, self-corrections, false
starts, and reformulations, typically measured by frequency.
1.2. Perceived fluency of Japanese speakers’ English
Several studies have investigated L1 Japanese speakers’ L2 En-
glish fluency using the aforementioned measures (see [6] for
a meta-analysis). Overall, these studies suggest that perceived
fluency as judged by native English listeners is strongly associ-
ated with AR and pause frequency, moderately with pause du-
ration, and weakly with repair frequency. Each study also ad-
dressed different research questions, such as how learners’ L2
fluency relates to their L2 proficiency [7], L1 fluency [8], and
cognitive skills [9], how it develops over time [10], and how it
is affected by interactions with other learners [11].
Magne et al. [12] represent one of very few studies that
examined nonnative English listeners’ judgments of Japanese
speakers’ English fluency. They asked 10 L2 users of English
with various European language backgrounds (French = 2, Hun-
garian = 2, Russian = 1, Spanish = 4, Ukrainian= 1) to evalu-
ate English speech samples from 90 Japanese speakers for per-
ceived fluency. The results were largely consistent with native
listeners’ judgments, with AR and pause frequency as primary
predictors of fluency ratings.
1.3. Current study
The bias toward native listeners’ judgments, which is pervasive
in the L2 fluency literature [6], is problematic at both concep-
tual and practical levels, as the diverse perspectives and eval-
uation criteria of nonnative listeners are virtually overlooked.
The current study attempts to bridge this gap by comparing
fluency ratings by (non)native listeners with various language
backgrounds against Japanese speakers’ English speech to ex-
tend prior research.
A further limitation of previous studies is their reliance on
frequentist statistical models, such as ANOVA [10], regression
[7, 8, 11, 12], and structural equation modeling [9]. These mod-
els provide binary decisions about whether a factor (e.g., listen-
ers’ L1) has a significant effect or not, although the absence of
statistical significance does not imply the factor is irrelevant.
Bayesian modeling, as adopted in the current study, is more
suitable for capturing the variability and uncertainty in fluency
ratings within and across listeners. By applying such analysis
to (non)native listeners’ data, the study also re-assesses the va-
lidity of utterance fluency measures that have been identified as
significant predictors of native listener judgments.
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
106
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-152

2. Methods
2.1. Speakers
The speech samples came from 180 native Japanese speak-
ers (114 female and 66 male) in the J-AESOP corpus [4].
They were undergraduate or graduate students at universities
in Tokyo and surrounding areas, aged between 18 and 38 (mean
= 20.3, standard deviation = 2.4). Most began learning English
at age 13 as part of Japan’s compulsory junior high school cur-
riculum, while others were first exposed to English at an earlier
age (mean = 10.6, standard deviation = 3.7). Approximately
two-thirds had resided in Japan throughout their lives, while the
remaining third had lived abroad for varying durations.
2.2. Materials
While the corpus features various types of recording tasks, this
study focuses on Task 6 01, where participants read aloud the
English version of “The North Wind and the Sun” [13]. The full
text is provided in Table 1.
Table 1: Full text of “The North Wind and the Sun”
Section
Material
1
The North Wind and the Sun were disputing
which was the stronger, when a traveler came
along wrapped in a warm cloak. They agreed
that the one who first succeeded in making the
traveler take his cloak off should be considered
stronger than the other.
2
Then the North Wind blew as hard as he could,
but the more he blew the more closely did the
traveler fold his cloak around him; and at last
the North Wind gave up the attempt.
3
Then the Sun shone out warmly, and immedi-
ately the traveler took off his cloak. And so the
North Wind was obliged to confess that the Sun
was the stronger of the two.
2.3. Measurement
The standard word- and segment-level annotation files of the
corpus were used to calculate the following measures of utter-
ance fluency for each speaker and each section.
• Speed
– The number of syllables (as identified by vowel labels, in-
cluding epenthetic ones) divided by speech duration ex-
cluding pauses (syllable-based AR)
– The number of segments (as identified by vowel and con-
sonant labels, including epenthetic ones) divided by speech
duration excluding pauses (segment-based AR)
• Breakdown
– The number of (un)filled pauses (pause frequency)
– The mean duration of (un)filled pauses (pause duration)
• Repair
– The number of word repetitions, as identified by the
“(RPT)” tag used in the corpus (repetitions)
2.4. Fluency ratings
The perceptual rating data from the corpus [14] were used. For
Task 6 01, 16 phonetically trained listeners with various L1
backgrounds (Table 2) rated each speaker’s recording of each
section for perceived fluency on a scale of 1 to 10. Note that the
group labels in Table 2 (“American,” “Japanese,” “Asian,” and
“European”) are unique to this study and do not reflect the clas-
sifications used in the original corpus; the possibility of alter-
native groupings is discussed in §4. The intraclass correlation
coefficient (ICC) using a two-way model for consistency was
0.882 for “American,” 0.813 for “Japanese,” 0.844 for “Asian,”
and 0.837 for “European” listeners, respectively, with an overall
ICC of 0.844.
Table 2: Listeners examined in the study
ID
L1
Group
eng1
American English
“American”
eng2
American English
eng3
American English
eng4
American English
jpn1
Japanese
“Japanese”
jpn2
Japanese
jpn3
Japanese
jpn4
Japanese
kor1
Korean
“Asian”
pan1
Punjabi
yue1
Cantonese
zho1
Mandarin
deu1
German
“European”
fra1
French
pol1
Polish
spa1
Spanish
2.5. Statistical analysis
All statistical analyses were performed in R1. Bayesian mixed-
effects models (“models” hereafter) were fitted using the brms
package [15], and posterior parameter distributions were visu-
alized using the bayesplot package [16]. Each model had the
following structure:
model <- brm(
Fluency ˜ Speed + Breakdown + Repair +
(1 + Speed + Breakdown + Repair | Listener),
data = df, family = gaussian(),
iter = 2000,
warmup = 1000, chains = 4
)
where perceived fluency was predicted by a given combina-
tion of speed, breakdown, and repair measures of utterance flu-
ency, with random intercepts and slopes for each listener. The
default (i.e., weakly informative) priors were used to minimize
potential biases from prior knowledge, especially because judg-
ments by the “Japanese” and “Asian” listeners may differ from
those by native English and European language listeners tested
previously.
Additionally, the loo package was used to perform leave-
one-out cross-validation (LOO-CV) for comparing the predic-
tive performance of different models, as described below.
1https://www.r-project.org
107

3. Results
3.1. Evaluating fluency measures
Before proceeding to inter-group comparisons, it is important
to identify which combination of speed, breakdown, and repair
measures is most suitable as the basis of analysis. To this end, a
series of models with different fluency measures as independent
variables (Table 3) were compared, using all data (180 speakers
× 3 sections × 16 listeners = 8640 observations).
Model A serves as the base model, incorporating speed and
breakdown measures that have demonstrated particular effec-
tiveness in previous studies. Model B investigates whether re-
placing syllable-based AR with segment-based AR improves
predictive performance; the rationale for this substitution will
be discussed later in detail (§4). Models C and D assess the
effects of including pause duration and repetitions—moderate
and weak predictors of native listeners’ fluency judgments, ac-
cording to previous research—on the model’s predictive power.
Finally, Model E is a maximally different model from the base
model.
Table 3: Models compared
Model
Speed
Breakdown
Repair
A
AR (syllable)
Pause freq.
-
B
AR (segment)
Pause freq.
-
C
AR (syllable)
Pause freq. & dur.
-
D
AR (syllable)
Pause freq.
Repetitions
E
AR (segment)
Pause freq. & dur.
Repetitions
The results of the model comparison are shown in Table 4.
Here, ∆ELPD (the difference in expected log predictive density
(ELPD)) is a measure of predictive performance of the models,
with higher (less negative) values indicating better performance.
It is important to interpret ∆ELPD in conjunction with its stan-
dard error (∆SE), which quantifies the uncertainty associated
with the estimated predictive performance.
Table 4: Results of model comparison
Model
∆ELPD
∆SE
E
0.0
0.0
B
-122.4
16.3
C
-765.3
30.5
D
-774.7
27.8
A
-827.7
29.1
Model A (the base model) shows the lowest ∆ELPD, sug-
gesting that relying solely on syllable-based AR and pause
frequency is insufficient for optimal prediction. Substituting
syllable-based AR with segment-based AR in Model B substan-
tially improves performance, indicating that segment-based AR
captures additional information not effectively represented by
syllable-based AR. Models C and D, which incorporate pause
duration and repetitions, also show performance gains com-
pared to the base model, though these improvements are less
pronounced than those with Model B. Model E, which inte-
grates the substituted and added predictors from Models B to
D, achieves the highest performance, demonstrating the syner-
gistic benefits of combining these measures.
Based on the above results, Model E was selected for de-
tailed analysis of inter-group differences, presented next.
3.2. Comparing native and nonnative listener groups
Figures 1 to 4 present the posterior distributions of parameters
in Model E for data from each of the four listener groups.
−5
0
5
Intercept
0.0
0.6
1.2
AR (segment)
−0.4 −0.2 0.0
Pause freq.
−6
−3
0
Pause dur.
0.00 0.05 0.10
Repetitions
Figure 1: Posterior distributions for American listeners’ results.
−5
0
5
Intercept
0.0
0.6
1.2
AR (segment)
−0.4 −0.2 0.0
Pause freq.
−6
−3
0
Pause dur.
0.00 0.05 0.10
Repetitions
Figure 2: Posterior distributions for Japanese listeners’ results.
−5
0
5
Intercept
0.0
0.6
1.2
AR (segment)
−0.4 −0.2 0.0
Pause freq.
−6
−3
0
Pause dur.
0.00 0.05 0.10
Repetitions
Figure 3: Posterior distributions for Asian listeners’ results.
−5
0
5
Intercept
0.0
0.6
1.2
AR (segment)
−0.4 −0.2 0.0
Pause freq.
−6
−3
0
Pause dur.
0.00 0.05 0.10
Repetitions
Figure 4: Posterior distributions for European listeners’ results.
The intercepts reflect baseline fluency ratings across
groups.
“Japanese” and “Asian” listeners showed generally
higher values than “American” and “European” listeners, sug-
gesting more lenient judgments by the former groups than the
latter groups.
The effect of segment-based AR was positive across all
groups, indicating that faster speech is consistently associated
with higher fluency ratings. Notably, native (i.e, “American”)
listeners appear to rely more heavily on AR than nonnative lis-
teners, particularly “Japanese” and “Asian” listeners.
Pause frequency and duration exhibited similarly negative
effects on perceived fluency across all groups, with more fre-
quent and longer pauses leading to lower ratings. However,
the degree of uncertainty associated with these effects varied
by group. For example, “Japanese” listeners showed less uncer-
tainty in the effect of pause frequency compared to other groups.
Repetitions showed weak effects across all groups, with
confidence intervals close to zero. This finding aligns with prior
research suggesting a relatively minor role of repair fluency.
108

4. Discussion
4.1. Summary
This study investigated how native and nonnative listeners with
diverse L1 backgrounds evaluate the fluency of Japanese speak-
ers’ English, using a Bayesian modeling framework to ana-
lyze various utterance fluency measures.
Among the tested
models, the one incorporating segment-based AR, pause fre-
quency, pause duration, and repetitions (Model E) demon-
strated the best predictive performance. While the overall pat-
terns of fluency judgments were generally consistent across the
four listener groups (“American,” “European,” “Japanese,” and
“Asian”), some notable differences emerged. First, “Japanese”
and “Asian” listeners tended to assign more lenient fluency
ratings than “American” and “European” listeners.
Second,
“American” listeners were more reliant on AR in fluency judg-
ments than their “Japanese” and “Asian” counterparts. Finally,
the degree of uncertainty associated with the effects of pause
frequency and duration varied considerably across groups.
4.2. Beyond native listener norms
A central contribution of the current study is its demonstration
of the variability and uncertainty in L2 fluency ratings across
native and nonnative listeners. While all four groups generally
agreed that faster speech with fewer and shorter pauses indicates
higher fluency, systematic differences emerged in their overall
leniency and reliance on specific temporal measures, as high-
lighted above. The findings add to prior research that focused
on native English listeners [7, 8, 9, 10, 11] (or European lan-
guage listeners [12]), extending the understanding of how flu-
ency judgments may qualitatively differ among diverse listener
populations. Importantly, the adoption of Bayesian modeling
proved useful in revealing these inter-group differences. Un-
like frequentist approaches, which often reduce findings to bi-
nary significance tests, Bayesian methods allowed for a nuanced
visualization and interpretation of variability and uncertainty,
both within and across listeners.
The observed inter-group differences may reflect listeners’
varying levels of familiarity with, or expectations for, Japanese
speakers’ English. Other factors, such as nonnative listeners’
proficiency in English, may also play a role. Regardless of the
underlying causes, these findings illustrate the need to move
beyond native listener norms in fluency assessments (similar
to how the field has largely shifted away from native speaker
norms), especially in light of English’s status as a lingua franca
[17]. By incorporating nonnative listener perspectives, we are
one step closer to fairer and more inclusive evaluations that bet-
ter reflect the diverse community of English users worldwide.
4.3. Revisiting and refining fluency measures
Another notable finding of this study is that segment-based ar-
ticulation rate (AR) clearly outperformed syllable-based AR as
a measure of speed fluency. In L2 fluency research, the de facto
standard practice for calculating AR is to divide the number of
syllables (often approximated by the number of vowels or other
highly sonorant segments) by the total duration of speech seg-
ments. However, syllable-based AR may not accurately capture
‘articulation rate’ per se, as the total duration of speech seg-
ments is dependent on the complexity of the syllables [18, 19].
For example, a one-syllable word like “strength” /stôENkT/ (CC-
CVCCC) naturally takes longer to produce than a simpler one-
syllable word like “ten” /tEn/ (CVC) due to the greater number
of consonants.
This limitation with syllable-based AR becomes especially
problematic when measuring speed fluency of L2 speech, as less
proficient L2 learners often simplify complex syllable struc-
tures through vowel epenthesis (e.g., pronouncing “strength” as
[sutoReNgusu] (CVCVCVCCVCV)) or consonant deletion (e.g.,
pronouncing “strength” as [stEN] (CCVC)) [20, 21]. Such sim-
plifications reduce the duration of each syllable and artificially
inflate AR values (although, in the case of consonant deletion,
the magnitude of syllable shortening can be mitigated by com-
pensatory lengthening of the vowel). As a result, syllable-based
AR fails to reliably capture speed fluency, since slower speech
in less proficient speakers (which should otherwise yield lower
AR values) is obscured by the confounding effects of syllable
simplification. Counting the number of segments provides a
more direct and accurate measure of ‘articulation rate.’
4.4. Limitations and future directions
Although the present findings offer valuable insights into how
various listener groups perceive L2 fluency and its quantifica-
tion, some limitations must be acknowledged.
First, the speech data in the current study were obtained
from a reading task, which differs from spontaneous speech in
several respects. For example, previous research has suggested
that pause locations reflect distinct stages of speech production
(where between-clause pauses correspond to conceptualization
and within-clause pauses to formation), but this distinction was
not addressed in the current study, as reading pre-written sen-
tences likely involves minimal conceptualization. Furthermore,
filled and unfilled pauses were analyzed together, since filled
pauses (e.g., fillers) are infrequent in reading tasks. Similarly,
repair strategies were restricted to word repetitions following
stumbling or misreading, with no possibilities of false starts or
reformulations typical of spontaneous speech. Future research
should compare fluency ratings across read-aloud and sponta-
neous tasks (e.g., Tasks 6 and 8 of the J-AESOP corpus) to ex-
plore whether listeners rely on similar fluency measures under
varying speaking conditions.
Second, the sample size of listeners and the distribution
of their language backgrounds were limited. Further research
with more listeners, and with greater diversity in L1 groups—
particularly of less-represented languages in L2 English con-
texts such as African languages—is needed to extend these find-
ings.
Additionally, the validity of grouping listeners by ge-
ographic regions, as was done in this study, warrants further
scrutiny. Alternative groupings could consider typological dif-
ferences among listeners’ L1s in terms of rhythm (e.g., mora-
timed Japanese, syllable-timed Korean, or stress-timed Ger-
man) and syllable complexity (e.g., simple Japanese, moder-
ately complex French, or complex Polish), which may provide
a more accurate explanation for inter-listener variability.
Finally, while Bayesian mixed-effects modeling proved ef-
fective for analyzing listener variability, further refinements in
modeling techniques could yield deeper insights.
Promising
directions include: (1) incorporating more informative priors
(e.g., drawn from previous studies on native listeners’ judg-
ments), (2) using the cumulative rather than the Gaussian family
(since responses were discrete rather than continuous), and (3)
examining the main effect of listener group (to better capture
inter-group differences in overall leniency or strictness) as well
as the interactions between listener groups and fluency mea-
sures. Also, the flexibility of Bayesian modeling allows for the
inclusion of qualitative data, such as listener interviews, to shed
light on the cognitive processes underlying fluency judgments.
109

5. Acknowledgements
This study was supported by JSPS JSPS Grant-in-Aid for Sci-
entific Research (B) [23K20468] and JSPS Grant-in-Aid for
Early-Career Scientists [22K13159].
6. References
[1] S. Suzuki and J. Kormos, “Linguistic dimensions of comprehensi-
bility and perceived fluency: An investigation of complexity, ac-
curacy, and fluency in second language argumentative speech,”
Studies in Second Language Acquisition, vol. 42, no. 1, pp. 143–
167, 2020.
[2] K. Saito, K. Macmillan, M. Kachlicka, T. Kunihara, and N. Mine-
matsu, “Automated assessment of second language comprehensi-
bility: Review, training, validation, and generalization studies,”
Studies in Second Language Acquisition, vol. 45, no. 1, pp. 234–
263, 2023.
[3] P. Foster, “Pauline Foster’s essential bookshelf: Oral fluency in a
second language,” Language Teaching, pp. 1–9, 2023.
[4] K. Yazawa, T. Konishi, and M. Kondo, “The J-AESOP corpus:
Design, application, and future directions of a japanese-english
bilingual speech corpus,” Acoustical Science and Technology, pp.
1–12, 2025.
[5] P. Skehan, “Task-based instruction,” Language Teaching, vol. 36,
no. 1, pp. 1–14, 2003.
[6] S. Suzuki, J. Kormos, and T. Uchihara, “The relationship between
utterance and perceived fluency: A meta-analysis of correlational
studies,” The Modern Language Journal, vol. 105, no. 2, pp. 435–
463, 2021.
[7] K. Saito, M. Ilkan, V. Magne, M. N. Tran, and S. Suzuki, “Acous-
tic characteristics and learner profiles of low-, mid- and high-level
second language fluency,” Applied Psycholinguistics, vol. 39,
no. 3, pp. 593–617, 2018.
[8] S. Suzuki and J. Kormos, “The moderating role of L2 proficiency
in the predictive power of L1 fluency on L2 utterance fluency,”
Language Testing, vol. 42, no. 1, pp. 73–99, 2024.
[9] ——, “The multidimensionality of second language oral fluency:
Interfacing cognitive fluency and utterance fluency,” Studies in
Second Language Acquisition, vol. 45, no. 1, pp. 38–64, Mar.
2023.
[10] K. Hanzawa, “Development of second language speech fluency
in foreign language classrooms: A longitudinal study,” Language
Teaching Research, vol. 28, no. 3, pp. 816–838, May 2024.
[11] M. Sato, “Exploring the construct of interactional oral fluency:
Second Language Acquisition and Language Testing approaches,”
System, vol. 45, pp. 79–91, 2014.
[12] V. Magne, S. Suzuki, Y. Suzukida, M. Ilkan, M. Tran, and
K. Saito, “Exploring the dynamic nature of second language lis-
teners’ perceived fluency: A mixed-methods approach,” TESOL
Quarterly, vol. 53, no. 4, pp. 1139–1150, 2019.
[13] International Phonetic Association, Handbook of the Interna-
tional Phonetic Association: A Guide to Use the International
Phonetic Alphabet.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
1999.
[14] T. Konishi, “A corpus-based study on Japanese English rhythm,”
Ph.D. dissertation, Waseda University, 2022.
[15] P.-C. B¨urkner, “brms: An R package for Bayesian multilevel mod-
els using Stan,” Journal of Statistical Software, vol. 80, pp. 1–28,
2017.
[16] ——, “Advanced Bayesian multilevel modeling with the R pack-
age brms,” The R Journal, vol. 10, no. 1, pp. 395–411, 2018.
[17] J. Jenkins, The Phonology of English as an International Lan-
guage.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2000.
[18] Y. Ozaki, K. Yazawa, and M. Kondo, “L2 English speech rhythm
of Japanese speakers: An alternative implementation of the Varco
metrics,” in Proceedings of the Phonetics Teaching and Learning
Conference 2017, London, 2017, pp. 84–88.
[19] K. Yazawa and M. Kondo, “A comparison of rhythm metrics for
L2 speech,” in Proceedings of the 11th International Conference
on Speech Prosody.
International Speech Communication Asso-
ciation, 2022, pp. 332–336.
[20] K. Yazawa, T. Konishi, K. Hanzawa, G. Short, and M. Kondo,
“Vowel epenthesis in Japanese speakers’ L2 English,” in Proceed-
ings of the 18th International Congress of Phonetic Sciences, The
Scottish Consortium for ICPhS 2015, Ed.
Glasgow: The Uni-
versity of Glasgow, 2015, pp. 969:1–4.
[21] K. Yazawa, “Annotating second language learner speech: Reflect-
ing on the development of the J-AESOP corpus,” Journal of the
Phonetic Society of Japan, vol. 26, no. 3, pp. 111–123, 2022.
110

