SonarGuard2: Ultrasonic Face Liveness Detection Based on Adaptive Doppler
Effect Feature Extraction
Xiaoming Zhang, Ke-Yue Zhang, Taiping Yao, Songjun Cao, Shouhong Ding, Long Ma
Tencent Youtu Lab, China
xiaomizhang@tencent.com,zkyezhang@tencent.com,taipingyao@tencent.com,songjuncao@tencent.com,
ericshding@tencent.com, malonema@tencent.com
Abstract
Face anti-spoofing is crucial to security of face recognition
systems. Vision-based face liveness detection algorithms often
fail when faced with video attacks, such as video replay. How-
ever, liveness detection based on sound waves can effectively
detect such attacks by relying on the Doppler effect. In or-
der to improve the robustness of liveness detection, we propose
a novel framework, named SonarGuard2, adaptively selecting
the ultrasonic signals and analyse the Doppler effect. Specif-
ically, we introduce acoustic echo cancellation to filter to get
the Doppler effect features, then utilize complex convolutional
neural networks to enhance the abilitity to model the Doppler
effect features. Furthemore, we propose a novel selection strat-
egy to determine the usability of ultrasonic signals on mobile
devices. The performance and visualizaiton on the collected
data demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework.
Index Terms: liveness detection, complex convolutional neural
network, doppler effect, acoustic echo cancellation
1. Introduction
With the proliferation of mobile devices, the demand for mo-
bile payments is also increasing. To ensure the security of these
payments, liveness detection using image information is a com-
monly employed method. However, vision-based liveness de-
tection is vulnerable to video replay attacks [1], as these at-
tacks utilize real images. It is challenging to determine whether
an image represents a live person or an attack based on im-
age information alone. The micro-Doppler effect [2] of sig-
nals reflected from moving objects can effectively resist video
replay attacks. Incorporating Doppler effect information of ob-
ject motion can enhance the robustness of a liveness detection
system. For widely used mobile devices such as smartphones,
sound waves are the most easily accessible signals. To ensure a
good user experience, the emitted signal should be impercepti-
ble. Therefore, using ultrasonic signals as the emitted signal is
a reasonable choice.
However, due to the varying positions of the signal emis-
sion and reception modules, as well as differences in the built-
in signal processing algorithms of mobile devices, some devices
may be unable to emit ultrasonic signals, or their reception mod-
ules may apply noise reduction processing that distorts the ul-
trasonic signals. In practical applications, it is necessary to have
a method to determine whether the received ultrasonic signals
are usable. We propose two criteria based on signal integrity
and signal distortion to make this assessment. Our work builds
upon SonarGuard [3], which uses ultrasonic signals to extract
the Doppler effect spectrum for liveness detection. In practi-
cal applications, we found that SonarGuard, which relies on the
Doppler effect of lip movements, has stringent requirements for
the signal emission angle. Many mobile phones do not meet
these requirements, limiting its application range. To expand
the practical application range of the algorithm, we shifted from
lip movements to forward and backward movements of the face
to obtain a more pronounced Doppler effect spectrum, thereby
reducing dependence on the signal emission angle. To make
SonarGuard adaptable to facial movements, we made several
adjustments. Based on SonarGuard’s ultrasonic-only network,
we replaced the Doppler effect feature extraction with an adap-
tive filtering method.
We use complex convolutional neural
networks [4] to directly enhance the signal and detect liveness.
These adjustments enable our solution to be fully data-driven,
achieving adaptive Doppler effect feature extraction.
We collected a basic dataset under normal usage conditions,
as well as a challenge dataset that includes hand movement in-
terference. Our method achieves an average error rate of 0.59%
on the basic dataset and 13.01% on the challenge dataset.
2. Related Work
To the best of our knowledge, there has been limited research
on using ultrasound for liveness detection over the past few
decades. Most of the existing work has focused on using ultra-
sound for gesture recognition on mobile devices [5,6,7,8]. Since
vision-based liveness detection cannot effectively resist replay
attacks that use real liveness data, ultrasound, which can easily
counter such attacks, has recently started to gain attention for
liveness detection.
References [9,10,11] utilize ultrasonic reflection signals to
determine liveness through the Doppler effect of lip movements.
This method relies heavily on numerous preset signal process-
ing thresholds, making it suitable only for specific scenarios.
Reference [12] employs two microphones to detect face live-
ness, but hardware differences between microphones on differ-
ent devices can significantly impact performance. Reference
[13] proposes a face verification scheme that combines audio
and image. It designs a special transmission signal; however,
since the duration of this signal is very short and its frequency
changes over time, the liveness detection system cannot obtain
a complete and clear Doppler effect.
Our previous work, SonarGuard, was the first to explore
the use of an attention structure to fuse image and ultrasound
information for face liveness detection [3]. Compared to vision-
based liveness detection, it can resist video replay attacks.
However, we identified several issues in practical applications.
Firstly, the Doppler effect of lip movement is not pronounced.
For a clear Doppler effect, the signal needs to be emitted in a
specific direction, a requirement that most devices cannot meet.
Secondly, after the ultrasound signal is demodulated and pro-
cessed, it passes through a notch filter and a low-pass filter. The
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
2520
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-728

threshold for the low-pass filter, which is set based on expe-
rience, and the filtering of the direct current (DC) component
can result in the loss of the Doppler effect. This loss can nega-
tively impact the accuracy of liveness detection. Thirdly, Sonar-
Guard’s beamforming method [14] assumes a set of ultrasonic
signal Time of Flight (ToF) and estimates the ToF of ultrasonic
signals reflected by moving objects through the maximum value
of the signal difference after beamforming. However, due to the
varying distance between the user and the verification device
and differences in the user’s movement posture, these variables
can lead to inaccurate ToF estimates. When the ToF estima-
tion is incorrect, the accuracy of liveness identification drops
rapidly.
3. Method
To address the issues encountered by SonarGuard in practi-
cal applications, we made several key modifications. First, we
shifted from detecting lip movements to detecting the forward
and backward movements of the face. This change leverages
larger movement amplitudes, thereby reducing the directional
requirements for the transmitted signal. To solve the problem of
incomplete Doppler effect extraction, we employed an acoustic
echo cancellation method [15] to filter out the transmitted ul-
trasound signals, thereby retaining the Doppler effect portion.
This approach adaptively extracts complete Doppler effect in-
formation. To address the issue of inaccurate Time of Flight
(ToF) estimation, we utilized a complex convolutional neural
network. The input signal, after undergoing Short-Time Fourier
Transform (STFT), is directly fed into the complex convolu-
tional neural network. Since complex numbers contain infor-
mation about both phase and energy, and the phase represents
the spatial position of the object [14], the complex convolutional
neural network can adaptively learn the most suitable ultrasonic
signal features.Our ultrasonic liveness detection system is di-
vided into three main modules: the ultrasonic availability judg-
ment module, the acoustic echo cancellation module, and the
liveness detection module. The overall structure is shown in
Figure 1. The details of each module are described below.
3.1. Ultrasonic availability judgment module
The system first emits three ultrasonic carriers [16,17,18] with
a frequency interval of 100 Hz. In our system, the demodu-
lated signals of these carriers are used to determine the ultra-
sonic availability of the device. The ultrasonic emission signal
can be described as
s(t) = PN
i=1(A cos 2πfit + A sin 2πfit)
(1)
where f denotes the signal frequency, N denotes the number of
carrier we transmit, i, t denote the frequency and time index,
respectively. The transmitted ultrasonic signal follows multiple
propagation paths, including reflections from various objects.
The received signal can be described as
R(t) = PM
k=1
PN
i=1(Ai
k(t) cos(2πfit + θi
k(t))
+Ai
k(t) sin(2πfit + θi
k(t)))
(2)
where M denotes the number of ultrasonic propagation paths,
Ai
k(t) represents the energy attenuation of the i-th carrier on the
k-th propagation path, and θi
k(t) represents the phase change of
the i-th carrier on the k-th propagation path.
We perform IQ demodulation on the received signal using
each carrier. After low-pass filtering, the demodulated signal
Transmitter
speaker
Face liveness 
detection system 
launched
Set the carrier 
frequency
Receiver
Generate 
waveform
mic
Acoustic echo 
cancellation
Complex 
Convolutional 
Neural Networks
Classification 
model
Ultrasonic 
availability 
judgment
reference
signal
Sonarguard2
face movement
transmitted
signal
reflected
signal
mic
Demodulation
Beamfoming
Low pass 
and notch 
filters
Classification 
model
Sonarguard
lip movement
speaker
Face liveness 
detection system 
launched
Set the carrier 
frequency
Generate 
waveform
transmitted
signal
reflected
signal
Transmitter
Receiver
carrier signal
Figure 1: The overall framework of SonarGuard2 and its com-
parison with SonarGuard.
can be described as
Ij(t) = PM
k=1
PN
i=1(Ai
k(t) cos(2π∆fijt + θi
k(t))
+Ai
k(t) sin(2π∆fijt + θi
k(t)))
Qj(t) = PM
k=1
PN
i=1(Ai
k(t) cos(2π∆fijt + θi
k(t))
−Ai
k(t) sin(2π∆fijt + θi
k(t)))
(3)
where j denotes the index of the carrier used for demodulation,
∆fij denotes fi −fj. Ij(t) and Qj(t) can be simplified by
adding and subtracting, which can be described as
Ij(t) + Qj(t) = PM
k=1
PN
i=1Ai
k(t) cos(2π∆fijt + θi
k(t))
Ij(t) −Qj(t) = PM
k=1
PN
i=1Ai
k(t) sin(2π∆fijt + θi
k(t))
(4)
Since the frequency interval of the carrier is 100 Hz, ∆fij
is equal to multiples of 100 Hz. When using the lowest carrier
frequency for demodulation, the demodulated signal consists of
DC, 100 Hz, and 200 Hz components, corresponding to three
different ∆fij. The phase and amplitude attenuation of I −Q
and I + Q at 100 Hz and 200 Hz are the same, so their energy
at these frequencies should also be the same. However, at 0 Hz,
the energy of I + Q and I −Q differs because θi
k(t) contains
a static phase component. The phase of the static part does not
change with time, and the results of the cosine and sine calcula-
tions on the phase are different. This conclusion helps us derive
a criterion for signal integrity, if the I + Q and I −Q signals
demodulated by the lowest frequency carrier have different en-
ergies at 100 Hz or 200 Hz, then the signal is incomplete and is
judged to be an invalid ultrasonic signal.
To determine whether the received signal is distorted, we
use the cross-correlation coefficient between the transmitted
signal and the received signal. If the cross-correlation coeffi-
cient exceeds the set threshold, the signal can be considered
undistorted. Based on the above analysis, we have established
two criteria for signal availability: the signal integrity criterion
and the signal distortion criterion.
2521

3.2. Acoustic echo cancellation module
We use a common acoustic echo cancellation technique [19] to
extract Doppler effect features. The Doppler effect can cause
changes in the frequency of the reflected signal from a moving
object. To extract this feature, our previous work involved us-
ing the demodulated signal to remove the DC component and
then applying a low-pass filter to retain the spectrum below 50
Hz. The collected data show that these low-frequency spectra
preserve most of the Doppler effect.
However, when the range of motion of the object is large,
such as the movement of an entire face, these filters cannot ef-
fectively extract Doppler effect features. To extract Doppler
features in different scenarios, we replace demodulation and
feature extraction with acoustic echo cancellation. We use three
ultrasonic carriers as reference signals and the received signal
as the input signal. After acoustic echo cancellation, the ultra-
sound component of the received signal is eliminated, leaving
only the Doppler effect features. Acoustic echo cancellation ad-
justs parameters adaptively according to the data, making it suit-
able for Doppler effect feature extraction in various scenarios.
Since there is no low-pass filtering or notch filtering operation,
complete Doppler effect features are retained.
3.3. Liveness detection module
SonarGuard uses the estimated Time of Flight (ToF) to deter-
mine the phase difference of each carrier [3], and then enhances
the signal of the moving object by adjusting the phase delay
of each carrier. However, ToF estimation often fails when the
motion range is large. To avoid ToF estimation errors in prac-
tical use, we employ a complex convolutional neural network
to combine ToF estimation with liveness detection. Complex
signals carry both energy and phase information, with phase in-
formation being related to the spatial position of the object. By
using the complex signal after Short-Time Fourier Transform
(STFT), we can process multiple carrier signals with different
phase delays and optimize the parameters of the complex con-
volutional neural network and classification network through
classification loss.
The complex signal is processed by the complex convolu-
tional neural network and then sent to the classification model.
The classification model utilizes LSTM [20,21] and the encoder
layer of the transformer [22] to capture both local and global
information, employing focal loss [23] as the overall loss func-
tion. We use attention pooling [24] to map each sample with
different time frames into a fixed-dimension vector, which is
then used for classification.
4. Experiments
4.1. Data
Our datasets are divided into two categories: basic datasets and
challenge datasets. These datasets were collected using ten dif-
ferent models of mobile phones. The basic dataset contains
1,620 samples, including 809 living samples and 811 attack
samples. The challenge dataset contains 530 samples, including
258 living samples and 272 attack samples. By employing data
augmentation techniques, such as randomly extracting sample
segments during object movement, we increased the size of the
dataset tenfold. The living samples fall into two types: the first
involves the face moving away from the phone, then closer, and
then away again; the second type involves the opposite move-
ment pattern. In the basic dataset, the attack samples consist of
Original signal
Dopper effect
(a) Face Movement
(b) Lip Movement
Figure 2: Comparison of Doppler effect spectrum of face and lip
motion, the carrier frequencies are 18050hz, 18150hz, 18250hz.
face movements played in a video, mimicking the same move-
ment patterns as the living samples. In the challenge dataset,
the attack samples added interference from human hand move-
ments during video replay. We randomly divided the datasets
into training and test sets in a ratio of 4:1. We filter all sam-
ples through the ultrasonic availability judgment module before
training and testing.
4.2. Implementation details
Our model consists of a complex convolutional layer, two
LSTM layers, and two transformer encoder layers. The kernel
size of the complex convolution is 3, with 16 output channels.
The LSTM has 64 hidden units, and the transformer’s attention
dimension is 128. The structure has a total of 3.1 million pa-
rameters. The models were developed using PyTorch [25]. We
used the adam optimizer for training, with an initial learning
rate of 1e-4, and trained the model for 100 epochs.
4.3. Baseline and Comparison Models
We use SonarGuard’s ultrasonic-only network for comparison.
To further compare our model with commonly used audio clas-
sification models, we also conducted experiments using the
Convolutional Recurrent Neural Network (CRNN) [26]. The
parameters of the models we compared are similar to those of
our proposed model. To assess the effectiveness of our proposed
ultrasonic availability judgment module, we randomly selected
300 samples and manually labeled the samples, dividing them
into three categories: lost ultrasonic signal, impaired ultrasonic
signal, and normal ultrasonic signal.
4.4. Evaluation Metrics
We used the same evaluation metrics as SonarGuard:Attack Pre-
sentation Classification Error Rate (APCER), Bona Fide Pre-
sentation Classification Error Rate (BPCER), and Average Clas-
sification Error Rate (ACER) [27].
5. Results
5.1. Comparison of the Doppler effect
Figure 2 illustrates the comparison of the Doppler effect spec-
trum between lip movement and face movement. It is evident
that the frequency variation in face movement is greater than
2522

Table 1: Classification error rates (%) of different methods on
our basic dataset and challenge dataset.
Testset
Method
APCER
BPCER
ACER
CRNN
38.46
40.54
39.50
challenge
Sonarguard
37.50
25.00
31.25
Sonarguard2
19.35
6.67
13.01
CRNN
4.48
27.45
15.96
basic
Sonarguard
9.09
19.42
14.25
Sonarguard2
0.00
1.18
0.59
Table 2: Ablation study based on Sonarguard2
Testset
Sonarguard2
APCER
BPCER
ACER
challenge
w/o cconv
17.24
21.28
19.26
w/o aec
21.05
15.79
18.42
basic
w/o cconv
2.20
7.69
4.95
w/o aec
2.35
2.38
2.37
that in lip movement, making the Doppler effect more pro-
nounced. This also implies reduced hardware requirements for
mobile devices.
5.2. Overall Results
Table 1 presents the comparison of classification error rates
across different methods. Sonarguard2 has achieved the best re-
sults on our datasets. In contrast, the audio classification model
CRNN exhibits the highest classification error rate, primarily
because it uses mel features, which have low resolution at high
frequencies. The SonarGuard shows a high classification error
rate due to its beamforming not being well-suited for large mo-
tion ranges, such as face movement. The Time of Flight (TOF)
estimated by SonarGuard is inaccurate for objects with large
motion ranges, and its beamforming negatively affects accuracy.
In our experiments, we found that the classification error rate of
SonarGuard without beamforming was reduced to some extent
on the basic dataset. However, the classification error rate re-
mained essentially unchanged on the challenge dataset. This is
because the incomplete Doppler effect caused by filtering pre-
vents SonarGuard from effectively distinguishing between dif-
ferent moving objects.
5.3. Ablation Study
Table 2 presents the effects of aec and cconv (complex convo-
lution) on SonarGuard2. It is evident that cconv has a greater
impact on the classification error rate compared to aec. This
is because the parameters of cconv are adjusted based on the
entire training dataset, whereas the parameters of aec are op-
timized using only a single sample. Consequently, cconv has
better generalization ability. And cconv also has the ability of
feature enhancement, which can learn the most suitable feature.
5.4. Evaluation of ultrasonic availability
Table 3 presents the number of invalid data detected by ultra-
sonic availability judgment module. It can be observed that the
module can detect all samples with lost ultrasonic signals, does
not misjudge normal samples, and maintains high detection ac-
curacy for samples with impaired ultrasonic signals.
Table 3: Results of ultrasonic availability judgment module.
Ultrasonic signal
Number
Invalid data detected
Lost
55
55
Impaired
67
65
Normal
178
0
Dopper effect extracted by SonarGuard
Dopper effect extracted by SonarGuard2
(a) Living samples
(b) Attack samples in basic dataset
(c) Attack samples in challenge dataset
85hz
160hz
65hz
75hz
Figure 3: Doppler effect spectrum of different samples, the car-
rier frequencies are 18050hz, 18150hz, 18250hz.
5.5. Doppler effect spectrum analysis
Figure 3 presents the Doppler effect spectrum after processing
by SonarGuard and after SonarGuard2. The upper and lower
spectrum in each column represent the Doppler effect of the
same sample processed by different methods. SonarGuard used
notch filters to remove the DC component due to the strong
DC energy that can interfere with the Doppler effect. In con-
trast, SonarGuard2 fully preserves the Doppler effect across all
frequency bands. In the challenge dataset, the Doppler effect
of attack samples processed by SonarGuard2 is noticeably dif-
ferent from that of living samples. Specifically, the frequency
variation in living samples (160hz) is greater than that in at-
tack samples (75hz). The frequency variation of sonarguard1 is
smaller than that of sonarguard2. Since SonarGuard sets 50 Hz
as the threshold for its low-pass filter, it can only retain Doppler
effect frequency changes up to 50 Hz. In contrast, SonarGuard2
adaptively retains the Doppler effect, thereby imposing no limit
on the frequency change range of the Doppler effect. This in-
dicates that the Doppler effect features we extracted are both
complete and distinguishable.
6. Conclusion and Future Work
We investigated the application of ultrasonic signals in face live-
ness detection. For various types of mobile devices, we pro-
posed criteria for assessing the availability of ultrasonic signals.
To address the issue of reduced generalization caused by empir-
ically preset filtering thresholds in Doppler effect feature extrac-
tion, we employed Acoustic Echo Cancellation (AEC) to adap-
tively filter the transmitted signal, thereby retaining the com-
plete Doppler effect. To tackle the problem of inaccurate esti-
mation of phase difference between carriers, we utilized a com-
plex convolutional neural network to directly process complex
signals containing both energy and phase information. As a re-
sult, our algorithm achieved the best performance.In the future,
we plan to integrate image information to further enhance the
accuracy of liveness detection.
2523

7. References
[1] Y. Chen, B. Ma, and Z. Ma, “Biometric authentication under
threat: Liveness detection hacking,” Black Hat USA, 2019.
[2] V. C. Chen, F. Li, S.-S. Ho, and H. Wechsler, “Micro-doppler ef-
fect in radar: phenomenon, model, and simulation study,” IEEE
Transactions on Aerospace and electronic systems, vol. 42, no. 1,
pp. 2–21, 2006.
[3] D. Zhang, J. Meng, J. Zhang, X. Deng, S. Ding, M. Zhou,
Q. Wang, Q. Li, and Y. Chen, “Sonarguard: Ultrasonic face live-
ness detection on mobile devices,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits
and Systems for Video Technology, vol. 33, no. 8, pp. 4401–4414,
2023.
[4] C. Trabelsi, O. Bilaniuk, Y. Zhang, D. Serdyuk, S. Subramanian,
J. F. Santos, S. Mehri, N. Rostamzadeh, Y. Bengio, and C. J.
Pal, “Deep complex networks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1705.09792,
2017.
[5] S. Gupta, D. Morris, S. Patel, and D. Tan, “Soundwave: using the
doppler effect to sense gestures,” in Proceedings of the SIGCHI
Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, 2012, pp.
1911–1914.
[6] J. McIntosh, A. Marzo, M. Fraser, and C. Phillips, “Echoflex:
Hand gesture recognition using ultrasound imaging,” in Proceed-
ings of the 2017 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing
Systems, 2017, pp. 1923–1934.
[7] K. Ling, H. Dai, Y. Liu, A. X. Liu, W. Wang, and Q. Gu, “Ul-
tragesture: Fine-grained gesture sensing and recognition,” IEEE
Transactions on Mobile Computing, vol. 21, no. 7, pp. 2620–
2636, 2020.
[8] A. Das, I. Tashev, and S. Mohammed, “Ultrasound based gesture
recognition,” in 2017 IEEE International Conference on Acous-
tics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2017, pp.
406–410.
[9] L. Lu, J. Yu, Y. Chen, H. Liu, Y. Zhu, L. Kong, and M. Li,
“Lip reading-based user authentication through acoustic sensing
on smartphones,” IEEE/ACM transactions on networking, vol. 27,
no. 1, pp. 447–460, 2019.
[10] J. Tan, X. Wang, C.-T. Nguyen, and Y. Shi, “Silentkey: A new
authentication framework through ultrasonic-based lip reading,”
Proceedings of the ACM on Interactive, Mobile, Wearable and
Ubiquitous Technologies, vol. 2, no. 1, pp. 1–18, 2018.
[11] M. Zhou, Q. Wang, Q. Li, P. Jiang, J. Yang, C. Shen, C. Wang,
and S. Ding, “Securing face liveness detection using unforgeable
lip motion patterns,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.08013, 2021.
[12] H. Chen, W. Wang, J. Zhang, and Q. Zhang, “Echoface: Acous-
tic sensor-based media attack detection for face authentication,”
IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 7, no. 3, pp. 2152–2159,
2019.
[13] B. Zhou, Z. Xie, Y. Zhang, J. Lohokare, R. Gao, and F. Ye, “Ro-
bust human face authentication leveraging acoustic sensing on
smartphones,” IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, vol. 21,
no. 8, pp. 3009–3023, 2021.
[14] H. Krim and M. Viberg, “Two decades of array signal process-
ing research: the parametric approach,” IEEE signal processing
magazine, vol. 13, no. 4, pp. 67–94, 1996.
[15] A. Mader, H. Puder, and G. U. Schmidt, “Step-size control for
acoustic echo cancellation filters–an overview,” Signal Process-
ing, vol. 80, no. 9, pp. 1697–1719, 2000.
[16] D. Zhang, Y. Hu, and Y. Chen, “Mtrack: Tracking multiperson
moving trajectories and vital signs with radio signals,” IEEE In-
ternet of Things Journal, vol. 8, no. 5, pp. 3904–3914, 2020.
[17] Z. Wu, D. Zhang, C. Xie, C. Yu, J. Chen, Y. Hu, and Y. Chen,
“Rfmask: A simple baseline for human silhouette segmentation
with radio signals,” IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, vol. 25,
pp. 4730–4741, 2022.
[18] D. Zhang, Y. Hu, Y. Chen, and B. Zeng, “Breathtrack: Tracking
indoor human breath status via commodity wifi,” IEEE Internet of
Things Journal, vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 3899–3911, 2019.
[19] K. Murano, S. Unagami, and F. Amano, “Echo cancellation and
applications,” IEEE Communications Magazine, vol. 28, no. 1,
pp. 49–55, 2002.
[20] S. Hochreiter, “Long short-term memory,” Neural Computation
MIT-Press, 1997.
[21] Y. Yu, X. Si, C. Hu, and J. Zhang, “A review of recurrent neural
networks: Lstm cells and network architectures,” Neural compu-
tation, vol. 31, no. 7, pp. 1235–1270, 2019.
[22] A. Vaswani, “Attention is all you need,” Advances in Neural In-
formation Processing Systems, 2017.
[23] T.-Y. Ross and G. Doll´ar, “Focal loss for dense object detection,”
in proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition, 2017, pp. 2980–2988.
[24] M. J. Er, Y. Zhang, N. Wang, and M. Pratama, “Attention pooling-
based convolutional neural network for sentence modelling,” In-
formation Sciences, vol. 373, pp. 388–403, 2016.
[25] A. Paszke, S. Gross, F. Massa, A. Lerer, J. Bradbury, G. Chanan,
T. Killeen, Z. Lin, N. Gimelshein, L. Antiga et al., “Pytorch:
An imperative style, high-performance deep learning library,” Ad-
vances in neural information processing systems, vol. 32, 2019.
[26] K. Choi, G. Fazekas, M. Sandler, and K. Cho, “Convolutional re-
current neural networks for music classification,” in 2017 IEEE
International conference on acoustics, speech and signal process-
ing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2017, pp. 2392–2396.
[27] Z. Yu, Y. Qin, X. Li, Z. Wang, C. Zhao, Z. Lei, and G. Zhao,
“Multi-modal face anti-spoofing based on central difference net-
works,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Com-
puter Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops, 2020, pp. 650–
651.
2524
