Infant Cry Emotion Recognition Using Improved ECAPA-TDNN with Multi-
scale Feature Fusion and Attention Enhancement 
Junyu Zhou, Yanxiong Li, Haolin Yu 
School of Electronic and Information Engineering, South China University of Technology, Guangzhou, China 
202230324417@mail.scut.edu.cn, eeyxli@scut.edu.cn, 1430876441@qq.com 
 
Abstract 
Infant cry emotion recognition is crucial for parenting and 
medical applications. It faces many challenges, such as subtle 
emotional variations, noise interference, and limited data. The 
existing methods lack the ability to effectively integrate multi-
scale features and temporal-frequency relationships. In this 
study, we propose a method for infant cry emotion recognition 
using an improved Emphasized Channel Attention, Propagation 
and Aggregation in Time Delay Neural Network (ECAPA-
TDNN) with both multi-scale feature fusion and attention 
enhancement. Experiments on a public dataset show that the 
proposed method achieves accuracy of 82.20%, number of 
parameters of 1.43 MB and FLOPs of 0.32 Giga. Moreover, our 
method has advantage over the baseline methods in terms of 
accuracy. The code is at https://github.com/kkpretend/IETMA. 
Index Terms: ECAPA-TDNN, multi-scale feature fusion, 
attention mechanism, infant cry emotion recognition 
1. Introduction 
Infant cries encode biologically significant information 
through acoustic features like frequency, duration, and timbre, 
correlating with emotional/physical states and influenced by 
individual variability and environmental noise. Dunstan’s 
theory identifies primal, reflexive vocalizations in infants aged 
0-3 months linked to specific physiological needs, verified in 
later studies [1]. Post-neonatal stages involve complex cries. 
Practical applications require multimodal integration of cry 
acoustics, behavioral cues, and contextual data. 
Recent advances in signal processing and data-driven 
algorithms have enabled infant cry analysis for detection [2]-
[5], cause classification [6]-[13], and pathological diagnosis 
[14]-[16]. Traditional methods rely on handcrafted acoustic 
features (e.g., Mel-frequency cepstral coefficients, linear 
prediction coefficient, spectral centroid) combined with 
classifiers (e.g., support vector machine, random forest, logistic 
regression [2], [6]-[8]. Hybrid methods, such as multistage 
ensemble models, achieve accuracies up to 93.7% [8]. 
Deep-learning based methods exceed the above traditional 
methods by extracting deep embeddings from samples. Transfer 
learning with pretrained Convolutional Neural Network (CNNs) 
or spectrogram-based network of long-short term memory 
attains accuracy of 92~99% for cry detection [5] and cry 
classification [9]. CNNs struggle with long-term dependencies, 
whereas recurrent neural networks (RNNs) are computationally 
inefficient. Models combining CNNs, RNNs, and attention 
mechanisms can further improve the performance of emotion 
recognition [10]-[12].  
Desplanques et al. propose the ECAPA-TDNN with an 
attention module of Squeeze Excitation (SE), and win first 
place at the VoxSRC2020 competition [17]. In a recent study 
[18], the ECAPA-TDNN is used for speaker verification based 
on infant cry, and an equal error rate of 25.8% is obtained. It is 
shown that the ECAPA-TDNN can learn effective embeddings 
from samples, and obtain higher accuracy than other models. 
Infant cries are emotionally nuanced, whose characteristics 
are hard to be captured by the model. Environmental noises 
further disrupt infant cries, and thus degrade the model’s 
performance. In addition, training datasets of infant cries are 
relatively small-scale, which leads to a decrease in the model’s 
generalization ability and adaptability. The ECAPA-TDNN has 
three critical limitations for emotion recognition of infant cries.  
First, its single-scale convolutional design with fixed kernel 
sizes and fixed dilation rates restricts the receptive field 
adaptability. As a result, multi-scale emotional information 
cannot be effectively captured. For instance, pain-induced high-
frequency spikes require small receptive fields for precise 
localization, while hunger-induced rhythmic patterns demand 
larger scales to discern trends. Hence, single-scale convolution 
will result in blurry information and incomplete utilization of 
multi-scale emotional information.  
Second, the ECAPA-TDNN lacks effective interlayer feature 
fusion mechanisms. Shallow layers capture low-level acoustic 
features, while deep layers extract abstract representations. The 
absence of cross-layer integration hampers the comprehensive 
interaction of features.  
Third, the temporal and channel attention mechanisms 
operate in isolation without synergistic interaction. Temporal 
attention focuses on time-series importance, while channel 
attention emphasizes frequency-band significance. However, 
the isolated usage of temporal and channel attentions prevents 
the model from effectively integrating the time-frequency 
intertwined emotional cues. The disconnection between 
temporal and channel attention modules limits the model’s 
holistic feature integration capability and decision-making 
capability, and finally reduces the model’s recognition accuracy.  
In short, the limitations in scale adaptability, hierarchical 
feature fusion, and attention synergy constrain the ECAPA-
TDNN’s performance in recognizing infant cry emotion. To 
overcome the above deficiencies of the ECAPA-TDNN, we 
propose an improved ECAPA-TDNN for infant cry emotion 
recognition in this paper.  
2. Method 
2.1 Method Framework 
The framework of the improved ECAPA-TDNN is the same 
as that of the ECAPA-TDNN, except for three synergistic 
modules. Figure 1 illustrates the frameworks of both ECAPA-
TDNN and improved ECAPA-TDNN.  
In the improved ECAPA-TDNN, the modules of Residual 
Squeeze-and-Excitation (RSE), Multi-scale Channel Attention 
(MCA) and differential attention are incorporated into the 
architecture of the ECAPA-TDNN. In addition, the global 
 Corresponding author: Yanxiong Li (eeyxli@scut.edu.cn) 
Interspeech 2025
17-21 August 2025, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
4478
10.21437/Interspeech.2025-1100

average pooling and Softmax substitute for the attentive 
statistics pooling and AAM-Softmax of the ECAPA-TDNN, 
respectively. The RSE module implements cross-dimensional 
interaction between the time-varying patterns and critical 
frequency bands, and thus effectively bridges the temporal and 
spectral domains. The MCA module enhances the feature 
extraction backbone by parallel multi-scale dilated convolution, 
and thus captures both localized spectro-temporal structures 
and extended contextual dynamics in the infant vocalizations. 
The global average pooling compresses the channel-wise 
feature representations, followed by the differential attention 
module, which can correct the fused channel weights by 
emphasizing emotion-relevant channels based on learned 
interdependencies. In summary, the layers within the blue 
dotted-line box in Figure 1 (b) not only enhance the interaction 
of features between layers but also prevent the emergence of 
issues such as gradient vanishing. 
Conv1d+ReLu+BN
SE-attention
Conv1D+ReLU+BN
SE-Res2Block
SE-Res2Block
SE-Res2Block
Attentive Stat Pooling+BN
FC+BN
AAM-Softmax
Conv1d+ReLU
+
output
output
RSE-attention
MSERes2Block
MSERes2Block
Differential-attention
FC+BN
Soft-max
MSERes2Block
output
Global Average Pooling+BN
+
+
+
+
+
(a)
(b)
 
Figure 1 The frameworks of (a) ECAPA-TDNN and (b) 
improved ECAPA-TDNN. As shown in subgraph (b), the 
improved parts include modules in the green background box, 
modules in the blue background box, and modules in the blue 
dotted-line box. 
2.2 Multi-Scale Channel Attention 
To enhance the model’s ability to extract discriminative 
features across different receptive fields, we propose a MCA 
module that integrates multi-scale feature extraction with 
channel-wise adaptive weighting [13], [19]. As illustrated in 
Figure 2, the MCA module consists of two key components: 
parallel convolutional branches with varying dilation rates for 
multi-scale context aggregation, and a channel attention 
mechanism for feature recalibration.  
For an input feature map 𝑿∈ℝ(஼×்) , the multi-scale 
transformation is defined by 
𝑭ₖ = 𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑣ଵ×௞
(ௗୀௗೖ)(𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑣ଵ×ଵ(𝑿))
(1) 
where 𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑣ଵ×௞
(ௗୀௗೖ) denotes a convolution with kernel size 1× 𝑘 
Conv1d
SE-attention
output
Input
Conv1d
Conv1d
Max 
Pooling
Conv1d
Conv1d
Conv1d
Concat
 
Figure 2 Structure of MCA convolution layer. 
and dilation rate dₖ. The dilated convolutions can be used to 
obtain exponential expansion of receptive fields without 
increasing computational complexity. The multi-scale features 
are then concatenated along the channel dimension, namely 
𝑭௖௔௧= [𝑭ଷ, 𝑭ହ, 𝑭଻, 𝑴] ∈ℝ(ସ஼×்) ,
(2) 
where 𝑭ଷ, 𝑭ହ and 𝑭଻ are calculated by Equation (1), and M is 
defined by 
𝑴= 𝑀𝑎𝑥𝑃𝑜𝑜𝑙൫𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑣ଵ×ଵ(𝑿)൯∈ℝ(ு×ௐ×஼) .
(3) 
𝒛 = (1/𝑇)෍𝑭௖௔௧(𝑡)்
௧ୀଵ
∈ℝସ஼ ,
(4) 
where T denotes the number of time steps. Subsequently, 
channel dependencies are learned through a gating mechanism 
using two fully-connected layers: 
𝒔 = 𝜎൫𝑾𝟐𝛿(𝑾𝟏𝒛)൯∈ℝଷ஼ ,
(5) 
where 𝛿(‧) and 𝜎(‧) denote ReLU function and Sigmoid 
activation function, respectively; 𝑾ଵ∈ℝ(ଷ஼/௥)×ଷ஼ and 𝑾ଶ∈
ℝଷ஼×(ଷ஼/௥) represent trainable weight matrices with reduction 
ratio r. The output of the block is obtained through channel-
wise scaling:  
𝑭௢௨௧= 𝒔⊙𝑭௖௔௧∈ℝସ஼×்
(6) 
where ⊙ denotes channel-wise multiplication. The original 
spatial resolution can be preserved, and discriminative channel 
responses can be enhanced. This approach for multi-scale 
feature extraction, coupled with the SE mechanism to adjust 
channel weights, not only addresses the issue of ECAPA-
TDNN's single-scale feature extraction but also maintains the 
coherence of the attention mechanism. This is crucial for the 
classification of infant crying causes, because the usage of 
global pooling operations avoids the premature reduction of 
dimensions, which will lead to the neglect of the importance of 
feature extraction. 
2.3 Temporal-Channel Interactive Attention Mechanism 
The temporal-channel interactive attention module performs 
information interaction between temporal dimension and 
channel dimension via a RSE structure. Given an input 
feature 𝑿∈ℝ(்×஼), where T and C denote numbers of time 
steps and channels, respectively. The processing pipeline is 
formalized by 
𝑿௥௦௘= 𝑅𝑆𝐸(𝑿) = 𝑿 + 𝑆𝐸(𝑿) ,
(7) 
where 𝑿௥௦௘ represents the features after the merging of time 
and frequency domains, and 𝑆𝐸(·) denotes the Squeeze-and-
Excitation operation, and is defined by 
𝑆𝐸(𝑿) = 𝜎൫𝑾ଶ𝛿(𝑾ଵ𝒛)൯⊙𝑿 ,
(8) 
4479

with 
 𝒛 = (1/𝑇)෍𝑿(𝑡)்
௧ୀଵ
∈ℝ஼ ,
(9) 
where 𝑾ଵ∈ℝ(஼/௥×஼) and 𝑾ଶ∈ℝ(஼×஼/௥) represent learnable 
parameters; σ (·), ⊙ and T stand for a Sigmoid function, 
channel-wise multiplication and the number of time steps, 
respectively. The RSE module preserves original temporal 
resolution and enhances channel adaptability. Temporal 
attention output 𝑨௧∈ℝ(்×ଵ) and channel attention output 𝑨௖∈
ℝ(ଵ×஼) are fused by 
𝑴 = (𝑨௧ 𝑨௖்) ⊙𝑿௥௦௘ .
(10) 
The final output integrates original temporal features by 
𝑿௢௨௧= 𝑿 + 𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑣1𝐷(𝑴) .
(11) 
For pain-related infant cries (e.g., 0.8-1.2 kHz abrupt onsets), 
temporal attention peaks at onset t_0 induce elevated weights 
for 0.8-1.2 kHz channels via 𝑨௧𝑨௖் correlation. 
The MCA and RSE Res2Block incorporates the RSE and 
MCA mechanisms into the original Res2Block of the ECAPA-
TDNN. Its structure is illustrated in Figure 3. 
RSE-attention
Conv1d+BN+ReLU
Muti-Res2DilatedConv1D
Conv1d+BN
SE-attention
input
output
Conv1d+BN
output
C*T
C/2*T
C*T
MCA+BN+ReLU
+
+
+
 
Figure 3 Structure of MCA and RSE Res2Block. 
As illustrated in Figure 3, after passing through the RSE-
attention module, the features are further processed by a one-
dimensional convolution and a Muti-Res2DilatedConv1D 
module. Afterwards, the channel weights are adjusted via the 
SE-attention module. 
2.4 Channel Recalibration via Differential Attention 
Like global average pooling and multi-scale feature fusion, 
the concatenated feature tensor 𝒁∈ℝ(ே×஼) undergoes channel-
wise recalibration by a differential attention operation of 
𝒁௢௨௧= ( 𝑨ଵ −𝜆𝑨ଶ ) 𝑽× 𝒁
(12) 
where: 
𝑨ଵ = 𝑆𝑜𝑓𝑡𝑚𝑎𝑥൫ 𝑸ଵ𝑲ଵ
୘/√𝑑൯
(13) 
ቊ𝑸ଵ= 𝑆𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑡൫ 𝒁 𝑾𝑸𝒛భ൯
𝑲ଵ= 𝑆𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑡൫ 𝒁 𝑾𝑲భ൯
(14) 
𝑨ଶ = 𝑆𝑜𝑓𝑡𝑚𝑎𝑥൫ 𝑸ଶ𝑲ଶ
୘/√𝑑൯
(15) 
ቊ𝑸ଶ= 𝑆𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑡൫ 𝒁 𝑾𝑸మ൯
𝑲ଶ= 𝑆𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑡൫ 𝒁 𝑾𝑲మ൯
(16) 
𝑽 = 𝒁 𝑾௏∈ℝ(ே×஼)
(17) 
where 𝜆∈ℝ is a learnable scalar optimized via gradient 
descent; T denotes the transpose of matrix; and Split(‧) is an 
operation for dividing a matrix into smaller matrices along a 
specified dimension. Each smaller matrix is then multiplied by 
corresponding weight matrices  𝑾𝑸 and 𝑾𝑲 to create multiple 
query and key matrices. 
The dual Softmax subtraction ( 𝑨ଵ −𝜆𝑨ଶ) implements 
contrastive channel weighting, suppressing attention noise and 
amplifying discriminative spectral patterns [20], [21]. This is 
achieved by adaptively canceling attention scores shared across 
both pathways ( 𝑨ଵ and 𝑨ଶ) , which correspond to non-
informative features. In the fused channels of baby crying, 
different channels contribute to emotional expression to varying 
degrees. The incorporation of this module further enhances the 
model's ability to capture information from specific channels. 
3. Experiments 
3.1 Experimental Datasets 
The experiments are conducted on a public dataset which is 
released by iFLYTEK and the University of Science and 
Technology of China in 2020. This dataset contains a total of 
3000 audio clips. The duration of each audio clip ranges from 3 
to 5 seconds. There are six types of infant cry emotions in this 
dataset, namely “awake”, “diaper”, “hug”, “hungry”, “sleepy”, 
and “uncomfortable”. The ratio of training set to testing set is 
equal to 8:2. The detailed information of this dataset can be 
found at: https://aistudio.baidu.com/datasetdetail/41960.  
3.2 Experimental Setup 
The hardware for performing the experiments mainly consists 
of an NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3060 GPU. The software mainly 
includes Python 3.10 and the deep learning framework of 
PyTorch 2.4. The audio clips are preprocessed by removing 
silent segments and normalizing the lengths to ensure 
uniformity. The model is trained for 700 epochs using the Adam 
optimizer with a batch size of 64, and the learning rate is set 
to 2ିହ. Additionally, 13 filters are adopted for spectral feature 
extraction, while 128 channels are used in the neural network. 
To verify the effectiveness of the improved ECAPA-TDNN, 
some necessary experiments are conducted. First, we conduct 
ablation experiments to show the performance contributions of 
different key modules of the improved ECAPA-TDNN. Then, 
we compare the improved ECAPA-TDNN with the ECAPA-
TDNN and Resnet18 using multiple performance metrics. The 
performance metrics include accuracy, number of model 
parameters (Param), and Floating-Point Operations (FLOPs) 
required for inference per sample. In addition, the confusion 
matrices of different models are presented for illustrating the 
details of confusions between different types of emotions 
obtained by different models.  
3.3 Experimental Results 
Table 1 presents the ablation experimental results obtained 
by the improved ECAPA-TDNN with different combinations 
of MCA, RSE and differential-attention modules. From the 
results of Table 1, we can draw two conclusions. First, each of 
the above three modules has an impact on the accuracy obtained 
by the proposed model for infant crying emotion recognition. 
Moreover, the MCA module has the greatest impact on the 
accuracy, since the accuracy drops from 82.20% to 78.37% 
after removing it. Second, when all the three modules are used 
together, the proposed model obtains the highest accuracy score 
of 82.20%. Hence, each module has complementarity and can 
4480

work together to improve the accuracy of the proposed model. 
Table 1 Ablation experimental results. 
Model
Accuracy
Improved ECAPA-TDNN with all modules
82.20%
Improved ECAPA-TDNN w/o MCA
78.37%
Improved ECAPA-TDNN w/o RSE
78.54%
Improved ECAPA-TDNN w/o differential-attention
78.70%
The improved ECAPA-TDNN is compared with two state-of 
the-art models, namely the ECAPA-TDNN and the Resnet18. 
The results obtained by different models are listed in Table 2. 
The improved ECAPA-TDNN obtains the accuracy score of 
82.20%. Its accuracy score is higher than that obtained by both 
ECAPA-TDNN and Resnet18. The accuracy gain obtained by 
the improved ECAPA-TDNN is mainly attributed to the 
integration of multi-scale feature extraction, optimization of the 
connection and coherence of the attention mechanism. The 
multi-scale feature extraction module can capture rich feature 
representations of the samples. The cross-layer connection 
module can realize the comprehensive interaction of features. 
The interaction between temporal and channel attention 
modules can improve the model’s abilities of holistic feature 
integration and decision-making. Hence, the improved ECAPA-
TDNN achieves higher accuracy scores compared to the two 
state-of-the-art models, namely ECAPA-TDNN and Resnet18. 
Table 2 The results obtained by different models. 
Model 
Accuracy
(%)
Param 
(MB)
FLOPs 
(Giga)
Improved ECAPA-TDNN
82.20
1.43
0.32
ECAPA-TDNN
73.38
0.84
0.20
Resnet18
60.07
10.66
10.47
The number of parameters and the FLOPs of the improved 
ECAPA-TDNN are 1.43 MB and 0.32 Giga, respectively. 
These two values are higher than the counterparts of the 
ECAPA-TDNN but lower than the counterparts of the Resnet18. 
That is, it doesn’t and does have advantage over the ECAPA-
TDNN and the Resnet18 in complexity, respectively.  
The confusion matrix of the improved ECAPA-TDNN for 
classifying infant cry emotions is shown in Figure 5. There are 
differences in the degree of confusion between different 
categories. The confusion between “awake” and “hungry” is the 
highest (reaching 12.15%). However, the confusion between 
“sleepy” and “diaper”, and the confusion between “awake” and 
“uncomfortable”, reach the lowest value of 0.  
 
Figure 5 Confusion matrix of the improved ECAPA-TDNN. 
For comparison convenience, Figures 6 and 7 depict the 
confusion matrices of the ECAPA-TDNN and Resnet18, 
respectively. From the results in Figure 5 to Figure 7, it can be 
known that the ECAPA-TDNN and Resnet18 have higher 
levels of confusion for various categories of emotions than the 
improved ECAPA-TDNN.  
 
Figure 6 Confusion matrix of the ECAPA-TDNN. 
 
Figure 7 Confusion matrix of the improved Resnet18. 
4. Conclusions 
In this paper, we design a model of the improved ECAPA-
TDNN for infant cry emotion recognition. It integrates multi-
scale feature fusion module and bidirectional temporal-channel 
co-attention modules. Experimental results demonstrate that the 
proposed model achieves the accuracy score of 82.20% which 
is higher than that obtained by two state-of-the-art models, 
namely ECAPA-TDNN and Restnet18. Hence, it has advantage 
over other two models in accuracy.  
However, the proposed model still has its own limitations. 
First, its complexity is higher than the ECAPA-TDNN. Second, 
its attention modules mainly concentrate on the temporal-
channel interactions, but spatial dependencies in spectrogram 
representations remain underutilized. In the future work, we 
will explore hybrid attention architectures by incorporating 
spatial-spectral relationships. We will also take measures to 
reduce the complexity of the model for deploying it on edge 
devices, such as knowledge distillation, pruning, and parameter 
compression of models. 
4481

5. Acknowledgement 
This work was supported by the national natural science 
foundation of China (62371195, 62111530145, 61771200), the 
exchange project of the 10th Meeting of the China-Croatia 
Science and Technology Cooperation Committee (10-34), the 
provincial undergraduate training program for innovation and 
entrepreneurship (S202410561216), and Guangdong provincial 
key laboratory of human digital twin (2022B1212010004). 
6. References 
[1] 
C. A. Bratan, M. Gheorghe, I. Ispas, E. Franti, M. Dascalu, S. M. 
Stoicescu, I. Roșca, F. Gherghiceanu, D. Dumitrache, and L. 
Nastase, "Dunstan baby language classification with CNN," 
in Proc. of International Conference on Speech Technology and 
Human-Computer Dialogue (SpeD), Bucharest, Romania, 2021, 
pp. 167-171. 
[2] 
 X. Yao, M. Micheletti, M. Johnson, E. Thomaz, and K. de 
Barbaro, "Infant crying detection in real-world environments," 
in Proc. of IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech 
and Signal Processing, Singapore, 2022, pp. 131-135. 
[3] 
T. Khandelwal, R. K. Das, and E. S. Chng, "Is your baby fine at 
home? Baby cry sound detection in domestic environments," 
in Proc. of Asia-Pacific Signal and Information Processing 
Association Annual Summit and Conference (APSIPA ASC), 
Chiang Mai, Thailand, 2022, pp. 275-280. 
[4] 
L. S. Foo, W.-S. Yap, Y. C. Hum, Z. Kadim, H. W. Hon, and Y. 
K. Tee, "Real-time baby crying detection in the noisy everyday 
environment," in Proc. of IEEE Control and System Graduate 
Research Colloquium (ICSGRC), Shah Alam, Malaysia, 2020, 
pp. 26-31. 
[5] 
S. P. Narayanan, M. S. Manikandan, and L. R. Cenkeramaddi, 
"Spectrogram and LSTM based infant cry detection method for 
infant wellness monitoring systems," in Proc. of International 
Conference on Human System Interaction (HSI), Paris, France, 
2024, pp. 1-4. 
[6] 
G. Aggarwal, K. Jhajharia, J. Izhar, M. Kumar, and L. Abualigah, 
"A machine learning approach to classify biomedical acoustic 
features for baby cries," Journal of Voice, vol. 38, no. 2, pp. 245-
253, 2023.  
[7] 
 L. Liu, W. Li, X. Wu, and B. X. Zhou, "Infant cry language 
analysis and recognition: an experimental approach," IEEE/CAA 
Journal of Automatica Sinica, vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 778-788, May 
2019. 
[8] 
V.R. Joshi, K. Srinivasan, P.M.D.R. Vincent, V. Rajinikanth, and 
C.Y. Chang, "A multistage heterogeneous stacking ensemble 
model for augmented infant cry classification," Frontiers in 
Public Health, vol. 10, p. 819865, Mar. 2022. 
[9] 
G. Anjali, S. Sanjeev, A. Mounika, G. Suhas, G. P. Reddy, and 
Y. Kshiraja, "Infant cry classification using transfer learning," 
in Proc. of  IEEE Region 10 Conference on TENCON, Hong 
Kong, 2022, pp. 1-7,  
[10] X. Shen, B. Lv, T. Liu, and Q. Cheng, "Infant speech emotion 
recognition based on channel attention mechanism with ResNet-
BiLSTM," in Proc. of International Conference on Information 
Science, Parallel and Distributed Systems (ISPDS), Guangzhou, 
China, 2024, pp. 54-57. 
[11] S. G. A, G. S, G. Tharagarani, S.P, and S. B, "An automated 
mood analysis of crying infants through sound recognition using 
hybrid deep learning," in Proc. of International Conference on 
Smart Technologies and Systems for Next Generation 
Computing (ICSTSN), Villupuram, India, 2024, pp. 1-6. 
[12] Y. Liu, B. Lv, S. Xu, and X. Shen, "Emotion recognition of 
infant crying sounds using convolutional recurrent neural 
network with multi-scale joint attention mechanism," in Proc. of 
International Conference on Information Systems Engineering 
(ICISE), Dalian, China, 2023, pp. 615-619. 
[13]  J. Yang, Z. Zhang, J. Li, and C. Lin, "A multi-scale 
convolutional attention neural network based on residual block 
downsampling for infant cry classification and detection," 
in Proc. of International Conference on Internet of Things, 
Automation and Artificial Intelligence (IoTAAI), Guangzhou, 
China, 2024, pp. 9-14. 
[14] C. Ji, T. B. Mudiyanselage, Y. Gao, and Y. Pan, "A review of 
infant cry analysis and classification," EURASIP Journal on 
Audio, Speech, and Music Processing, vol. 2021, no. 1, Art. no. 
8, 2021. 
[15] J. J. Parga, S. K. Lewis, and M. H. Goldstein, "Defining and 
distinguishing infant behavioral states using acoustic cry 
analysis: Is colic painful ?," Pediatric Research, vol. 87, no. 3, 
pp. 440-447, 2020. 
[16] A. Gorin, C. Subakan, S. Abdoli, J. Wang, S. Latremouille, and 
C. C. Onu, "Self-supervised learning for infant cry analysis," 
in Proc. of ICASSP Workshop on Safety and Security in Speech 
and Biomedical Signal Processing (SASB), IEEE, 2023, pp. 1-5.  
[17] B. Desplanques, J. Thienpondt, and K. Demuynck, "ECAPA-
TDNN: Emphasized channel attention, propagation and 
aggregation in TDNN based speaker verification," in Proc. of 
INTERSPEECH, 2020, pp. 3830-3834. 
[18] D. Budaghyan, C. C. Onu, A. Gorin, C. Subakan, and D. Precup, 
"CryCeleb: A speaker verification dataset based on infant cry 
sounds," in Proc. of IEEE International Conference on 
Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing, Seoul, Korea, 2024, 
pp. 11966-11970. 
[19] S. Dixit, A. Jain, and R. Singh, "Improving speaker 
representations using contrastive losses on multi-scale 
features," arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.05037, 2024. 
[20] T. Ye, L. Wang, and H. Li, "Differential transformer," arXiv 
preprint arXiv:2410.05258, 2024. 
[21] F. Li, C. Cui, and Y. Hu, "Classification of Infant Crying Sounds 
Using SE-ResNet-Transformer," Sensors, vol. 24, no. 20, pp. 
6575, 2024. 
 
4482
